[ moby dick by herman melville 1851 ]
etymology .
( supply by a late consumptive usher to a grammar school )
the pale usher -- threadbare in coat , heart , body , and brain ; i see he now . he be ever dust his old lexicon and grammar , with a queer handkerchief , mockingly embellish with all the gay flag of all the known nation of the world . he love to dust his old grammar ; it somehow mildly remind he of his mortality .
" while you take in hand to school other , and to teach they by what name a whale - fish be to be call in our tongue leave out , through ignorance , the letter h , which almost alone maketh the signification of the word , you deliver that which be not true . " --hackluyt
" whale . ... sw . and dan . hval . this animal be name from roundness or roll ; for in dan . hvalt be arch or vault . " --webster 's dictionary
" whale . ... it be more immediately from the dut . and ger . wallen ; a.s. walw - ian , to roll , to wallow . " --richardson 's dictionary
ketos , greek . cetus , latin . whoel , anglo - saxon . hvalt , danish . wal , dutch . hwal , swedish . whale , icelandic . whale , english . baleine , french . ballena , spanish . pekee - nuee - nuee , fegee . pekee - nuee - nuee , erromangoan .
extract ( supply by a sub - sub - librarian ) .
it will be see that this mere painstaking burrower and grub - worm of a poor devil of a sub - sub appear to have go through the long vaticans and street - stall of the earth , pick up whatever random allusion to whale he could anyways find in any book whatsoever , sacred or profane . therefore you must not , in every case at least , take the higgledy - piggledy whale statement , however authentic , in these extract , for veritable gospel cetology . far from it . as touch the ancient author generally , as well as the poet here appear , these extract be solely valuable or entertaining , as afford a glancing bird 's eye view of what have be promiscuously say , think , fancy , and sing of leviathan , by many nation and generation , include our own .
so fare thee well , poor devil of a sub - sub , whose commentator i be . thou belong to that hopeless , sallow tribe which no wine of this world will ever warm ; and for whom even pale sherry would be too rosy - strong ; but with whom one sometimes love to sit , and feel poor - devilish , too ; and grow convivial upon tear ; and say to they bluntly , with full eye and empty glass , and in not altogether unpleasant sadness -- give it up , sub - subs ! for by how much the more pain ye take to please the world , by so much the more shall ye for ever go thankless ! would that i could clear out hampton court and the tuileries for ye ! but gulp down your tear and hie aloft to the royal - mast with your heart ; for your friend who have go before be clear out the seven - storied heaven , and make refugee of long - pamper gabriel , michael , and raphael , against your coming . here ye strike but splinter heart together -- there , ye shall strike unsplinterable glass !
extract .
" and god create great whale . " --genesis .
" leviathan maketh a path to shine after he ; one would think the deep to be hoary . " --job .
" now the lord have prepare a great fish to swallow up jonah . " --jonah .
" there go the ship ; there be that leviathan whom thou hast make to play therein . " --psalms .
" in that day , the lord with his sore , and great , and strong sword , shall punish leviathan the pierce serpent , even leviathan that crook serpent ; and he shall slay the dragon that be in the sea . " --isaiah
" and what thing soever besides cometh within the chaos of this monster 's mouth , be it beast , boat , or stone , down it go all incontinently that foul great swallow of his , and perisheth in the bottomless gulf of his paunch . " --holland 's plutarch 's moral .
" the indian sea breedeth the most and the big fish that be : among which the whales and whirlpooles call balaene , take up as much in length as four acre or arpen of land . " --holland 's pliny .
" scarcely have we proceed two day on the sea , when about sunrise a great many whales and other monster of the sea , appear . among the former , one be of a most monstrous size . ... this come towards we , open - mouthed , raise the wave on all side , and beat the sea before he into a foam . " --tooke 's lucian . " the true history . "
" he visit this country also with a view of catch horse - whale , which have bone of very great value for their tooth , of which he bring some to the king . ... the good whale be catch in his own country , of which some be forty - eight , some fifty yard long . he say that he be one of six who have kill sixty in two day . " --other or octher 's verbal narrative taken down from his mouth by king alfred , a.d. 890 .
" and whereas all the other thing , whether beast or vessel , that enter into the dreadful gulf of this monster 's ( whale 's ) mouth , be immediately lose and swallow up , the sea - gudgeon retire into it in great security , and there sleep . " --montaigne . --apology for raimond sebond .
" let we fly , let we fly ! old nick take i if be not leviathan describe by the noble prophet moses in the life of patient job . " --rabelais .
" this whale 's liver be two cartload . " --stowe 's annals .
" the great leviathan that maketh the sea to seethe like boiling pan . " --lord bacon 's version of the psalms .
" touch that monstrous bulk of the whale or ork we have receive nothing certain . they grow exceed fat , insomuch that an incredible quantity of oil will be extract out of one whale . " --ibid . " history of life and death . "
" the sovereign thing on earth be parmacetti for an inward bruise . " --ke henry .
" very like a whale . " --hamlet .
" which to secure , no skill of leach 's art mote he availle , but to returne againe to his wound 's worker , that with lowly dart , dinte his breast , have breed his restless paine , like as the wound whale to shore fly thro ' the maine . " --the faerie queen .
" immense as whale , the motion of whose vast body can in a peaceful calm trouble the ocean til it boil . " --sir william davenant . preface to gondibert .
" what spermacetti be , man might justly doubt , since the learn hosmannus in his work of thirty year , saith plainly , nescio quid sit . " --sir t. browne . of sperma ceti and the sperma ceti whale . vide his v. e.
" like spencer 's talus with his modern flail he threaten ruin with his ponderous tail . ... their fix jav'lin in his side he wear , and on his back a grove of pike appear . " --waller 's battle of the summer islands .
" by art be create that great leviathan , call a commonwealth or state--(in latin , civitas ) which be but an artificial man . " --opene sentence of hobbes 's leviathan .
" silly mansoul swallow it without chew , as if it have be a sprat in the mouth of a whale . " --pilgrim 's progress .
" that sea beast leviathan , which god of all his work create hugest that swim the ocean stream . " --paradise lost .
---"there leviathan , hugest of living creature , in the deep stretched like a promontory sleep or swim , and seem a move land ; and at his gill draw in , and at his breath spout out a sea . " --ibid .
" the mighty whale which swim in a sea of water , and have a sea of oil swimming in they . " --fulller 's profane and holy state .
" so close behind some promontory lie the huge leviathan to attend their prey , and give no chance , but swallow in the fry , which through their gap jaw mistake the way . " --dryden 's annus mirabilis .
" while the whale be float at the stern of the ship , they cut off his head , and tow it with a boat as near the shore as it will come ; but it will be aground in twelve or thirteen foot water . " --thomas edge 's ten voyages to spitzbergen , in purchas .
" in their way they see many whale sport in the ocean , and in wantonness fuzzing up the water through their pipe and vent , which nature have place on their shoulder . " --sir t. herbert 's voyages into asia and africa . harris coll .
" here they see such huge troop of whale , that they be force to proceed with a great deal of caution for fear they should run their ship upon they . " --schouten 's sixth circumnavigation .
" we set sail from the elbe , wind n.e. in the ship call the jonas - in - the - whale . ... some say the whale can not open his mouth , but that be a fable . ... they frequently climb up the mast to see whether they can see a whale , for the first discoverer have a ducat for his pain . ... i be tell of a whale take near shetland , that have above a barrel of herring in his belly . ... one of our harpooneer tell i that he catch once a whale in spitzbergen that be white all over . " --a voyage to greenland , a.d. 1671 harris coll .
" several whale have come in upon this coast ( fife ) anno 1652 , one eighty foot in length of the whale - bone kind come in , which ( as i be inform ) , besides a vast quantity of oil , do afford 500 weight of baleen . the jaw of it stand for a gate in the garden of pitferren . " --sibbald 's fife and kinross .
" myself have agree to try whether i can master and kill this sperma - ceti whale , for i could never hear of any of that sort that be kill by any man , such be his fierceness and swiftness . " --richard strafford 's letter from the bermudas . phil . trans . a.d. 1668 .
" whale in the sea god 's voice obey . " --n. e. primer .
" we see also abundance of large whale , there be more in those southern sea , as i may say , by a hundred to one ; than we have to the northward of we . " --captain cowley 's voyage round the globe , a.d. 1729 .
" ... and the breath of the whale be frequendy attend with such an insupportable smell , as to bring on a disorder of the brain . " --ulloa 's south america .
" to fifty choose sylph of special note , we trust the important charge , the petticoat . oft have we know that seven - fold fence to fail , tho ' stuff with hoop and arm with rib of whale . " --rape of the lock .
" if we compare land animal in respect to magnitude , with those that take up their abode in the deep , we shall find they will appear contemptible in the comparison . the whale be doubtless the large animal in creation . " --goldsmith , nat . hist .
" if you should write a fable for little fish , you would make they speak like great wale . " --goldsmith to johnson .
" in the afternoon we see what be suppose to be a rock , but it be find to be a dead whale , which some asiatics have kill , and be then tow ashore . they seem to endeavor to conceal themselves behind the whale , in order to avoid be see by we . " --cook 's voyages .
" the large whale , they seldom venture to attack . they stand in so great dread of some of they , that when out at sea they be afraid to mention even their name , and carry dung , lime - stone , juniper - wood , and some other article of the same nature in their boat , in order to terrify and prevent their too near approach . " --uno von troil 's letter on bank 's and solander 's voyage to iceland in 1772 .
" the spermacetti whale find by the nantuckois , be an active , fierce animal , and require vast address and boldness in the fisherman . " --thomas jefferson 's whale memorial to the french minister in 1778 .
" and pray , sir , what in the world be equal to it ? " --edmund burke 's reference in parliament to the nantucket whale - fishery .
" spain -- a great whale strand on the shore of europe . " --edmund burke . ( somewhere . )
" a tenth branch of the king 's ordinary revenue , say to be ground on the consideration of his guard and protect the sea from pirate and robber , be the right to royal fish , which be whale and sturgeon . and these , when either throw ashore or catch near the coast , be the property of the king . " --blackstone .
" soon to the sport of death the crew repair : rodmond unerre o'er his head suspend the barbed steel , and every turn attend . " --falconer 's shipwreck .
" bright shine the roof , the dome , the spire , and rocket blow self drive , to hang their momentary fire around the vault of heaven .
" so fire with water to compare , the ocean serve on high , up - spout by a whale in air , to express unwieldy joy . " --cowper , on the queen 's visit to london .
" ten or fifteen gallon of blood be throw out of the heart at a stroke , with immense velocity . " --john hunter 's account of the dissection of a whale . ( a small sized one . )
" the aorta of a whale be large in the bore than the main pipe of the water - work at london bridge , and the water roaring in its passage through that pipe be inferior in impetus and velocity to the blood gush from the whale 's heart . " --paley be theology .
" the whale be a mammiferous animal without hind foot . " --baron cuvier .
" in 40 degree south , we see spermacetti whales , but do not take any till the first of may , the sea be then cover with they . " --colnett 's voyage for the purpose of extend the spermaceti whale fishery .
" in the free element beneath i swam , floundered and dive , in play , in chace , in battle , fish of every colour , form , and kind ; which language can not paint , and mariner have never see ; from dread leviathan to insect million people every wave : gather'd in shoal immense , like float island , lead by mysterious instinct through that waste and trackless region , though on every side assault by voracious enemy , whales , shark , and monster , arm'd in front or jaw , with sword , saw , spiral horn , or hooked fang . " --montgomery 's world before the flood .
" io ! paean ! io ! sing . to the finny people 's king . not a mighty whale than this in the vast atlantic be ; not a fat fish than he , flounder round the polar sea . " --charles lamb 's triumph of the whale .
" in the year 1690 some person be on a high hill observe the whale spout and sport with each other , when one observe : there -- point to the sea -- be a green pasture where our child 's grand - child will go for bread . " --obed macy 's history of nantucket .
" i build a cottage for susan and myself and make a gateway in the form of a gothic arch , by set up a whale 's jaw bone . " --hawthorne 's twice tell tales .
" she come to bespeak a monument for her first love , who have be kill by a whale in the pacific ocean , no less than forty year ago . " --ibid .
" no , sir , ' tis a right whale , " answer tom ; " i see his sprout ; he throw up a pair of as pretty rainbow as a christian would wish to look at . he be a raal oil - butt , that fellow ! " --cooper 's pilot .
" the paper be bring in , and we see in the berlin gazette that whale have be introduce on the stage there . " --eckermann 's conversation with goethe .
" my god ! mr. chace , what be the matter ? " i answer , " we have be stave by a whale . " --"narrative of the shipwreck of the whale ship essex of nantucket , which be attacked and finally destroy by a large sperm whale in the pacific ocean . " by owen chace of nantucket , first mate of said vessel . new york , 1821 .
" a mariner sit in the shroud one night , the wind be pip free ; now bright , now dim , be the moonlight pale , and the phospher gleam in the wake of the whale , as it flounder in the sea . " --elizabeth oakes smith .
" the quantity of line withdraw from the boat engage in the capture of this one whale , amount altogether to 10,440 yard or nearly six english mile . ...
" sometimes the whale shake its tremendous tail in the air , which , crack like a whip , resound to the distance of three or four mile . " --scoresby .
" mad with the agony he endure from these fresh attack , the infuriate sperm whale roll over and over ; he rear his enormous head , and with wide expand jaw snap at everything around he ; he rush at the boat with his head ; they be propel before he with vast swiftness , and sometimes utterly destroy . ... it be a matter of great astonishment that the consideration of the habit of so interesting , and , in a commercial point of view , so important an animal ( as the sperm whale ) should have be so entirely neglect , or should have excite so little curiosity among the numerous , and many of they competent observer , that of late year , must have possess the most abundant and the most convenient opportunity of witness their habitude . " --thomas beale 's history of the sperm whale , 1839 .
" the cachalot " ( sperm whale ) " be not only well armed than the true whale " ( greenland or right whale ) " in possess a formidable weapon at either extremity of its body , but also more frequently display a disposition to employ these weapon offensively and in manner at once so artful , bold , and mischievous , as to lead to its being regard as the most dangerous to attack of all the know specie of the whale tribe . " --frederick debell bennett 's whale voyage round the globe , 1840 .
october 13 . " there she blow , " be sing out from the mast - head . " where away ? " demand the captain . " three point off the lee bow , sir . " " raise up your wheel . steady ! " " steady , sir . " " mast - head ahoy ! do you see that whale now ? " " ay ay , sir ! a shoal of sperm whales ! there she blow ! there she breach ! " " sing out ! sing out every time ! " " ay ay , sir ! there she blow ! there -- there -- thar she blow -- bowe -- bo - o - os ! " " how far off ? " " two mile and a half . " " thunder and lightning ! so near ! call all hand . " --j. ross browne 's etching of a whaling cruize . 1846 .
" the whale - ship globe , on board of which vessel occur the horrid transaction we be about to relate , belong to the island of nantucket . " --"narrative of the globe , " by lay and hussey survivors . a.d. 1828 .
be once pursue by a whale which he have wound , he parry the assault for some time with a lance ; but the furious monster at length rush on the boat ; himself and comrade only be preserve by leap into the water when they see the onset be inevitable . " --missionary journal of tyerman and bennett .
" nantucket itself , " say mr. webster , " be a very striking and peculiar portion of the national interest . there be a population of eight or nine thousand person live here in the sea , add largely every year to the national wealth by the bold and most persevere industry . " --report of daniel webster 's speech in the u. s. senate , on the application for the erection of a breakwater at nantucket . 1828 .
" the whale fall directly over he , and probably kill he in a moment . " --"the whale and his captors , or the whaleman 's adventures and the whale 's biography , gather on the homeward cruise of the commodore preble . " by rev . henry t. cheever .
" if you make the least damn bit of noise , " reply samuel , " i will send you to hell . " --life of samuel comstock ( the mutineer ) , by his brother , william comstock . another version of the whale - ship globe narrative .
" the voyage of the dutch and english to the northern ocean , in order , if possible , to discover a passage through it to india , though they fail of their main object , lay - open the haunt of the whale . " --mcculloch 's commercial dictionary .
" these thing be reciprocal ; the ball rebound , only to bind forward again ; for now in lay open the haunt of the whale , the whaleman seem to have indirectly hit upon new clew to that same mystic north - west passage . " --from " something " unpublished .
" it be impossible to meet a whale - ship on the ocean without be strike by her near appearance . the vessel under short sail , with look - out at the mast - head , eagerly scan the wide expanse around they , have a totally different air from those engage in regular voyage . " --current and whaling . u.s. ex . ex .
" pedestrian in the vicinity of london and elsewhere may recollect having see large curved bone set upright in the earth , either to form arch over gateway , or entrance to alcove , and they may perhaps have be tell that these be the rib of whale . " --tales of a whale voyager to the arctic ocean .
" it be not till the boat return from the pursuit of these whale , that the white see their ship in bloody possession of the savage enrol among the crew . " --newspaper account of the taking and retake of the whale - ship hobomack .
" it be generally well know that out of the crew of whale vessel ( american ) few ever return in the ship on board of which they depart . " --cruise in a whale boat .
" suddenly a mighty mass emerge from the water , and shoot up perpendicularly into the air . it be the while . " --miriam coffin or the whale fisherman .
" the whale be harpoon to be sure ; but bethink you , how you would manage a powerful unbroken colt , with the mere appliance of a rope tie to the root of his tail . " --a chapter on whaling in ribs and truck .
" on one occasion i see two of these monster ( whale ) probably male and female , slowly swim , one after the other , within less than a stone 's throw of the shore " ( terra del fuego ) , " over which the beech tree extend its branch . " --darwin 's voyage of a naturalist .
" ' stern all ! ' exclaim the mate , as upon turn his head , he see the distend jaw of a large sperm whale close to the head of the boat , threaten it with instant destruction;--'stern all , for your life ! ' " --wharton the whale killer .
" so be cheery , my lad , let your heart never fail , while the bold harpooneer be strike the whale ! " --nantucket song .
" oh , the rare old whale , mid storm and gale in his ocean home will be a giant in might , where might be right , and king of the boundless sea . " --whale song .
chapter 1
looming .
call i ishmael . some year ago -- never mind how long precisely -- have little or no money in my purse , and nothing particular to interest i on shore , i think i would sail about a little and see the watery part of the world . it be a way i have of drive off the spleen and regulate the circulation . whenever i find myself grow grim about the mouth ; whenever it be a damp , drizzly november in my soul ; whenever i find myself involuntarily pause before coffin warehouse , and bring up the rear of every funeral i meet ; and especially whenever my hypos get such an upper hand of i , that it require a strong moral principle to prevent i from deliberately step into the street , and methodically knock people 's hat off -- then , i account it high time to get to sea as soon as i can . this be my substitute for pistol and ball . with a philosophical flourish cato throw himself upon his sword ; i quietly take to the ship . there be nothing surprising in this . if they but know it , almost all man in their degree , some time or other , cherish very nearly the same feeling towards the ocean with i .
there now be your insular city of the manhattoes , belt round by wharf as indian isle by coral reef -- commerce surround it with her surf . right and leave , the street take you waterward . its extreme downtown be the battery , where that noble mole be wash by wave , and cool by breeze , which a few hour previous be out of sight of land . look at the crowd of water - gazer there .
circumambulate the city of a dreamy sabbath afternoon . go from corlears hook to coenties slip , and from thence , by whitehall , northward . what do you see?--poste like silent sentinel all around the town , stand thousand upon thousand of mortal man fix in ocean revery . some lean against the spile ; some seat upon the pier - head ; some look over the bulwark of ship from china ; some high aloft in the rigging , as if strive to get a still well seaward peep . but these be all landsman ; of week day pen up in lath and plaster -- tie to counter , nail to bench , clinch to desk . how then be this ? be the green field go ? what do they here ?
but look ! here come more crowd , pace straight for the water , and seemingly bind for a dive . strange ! nothing will content they but the extreme limit of the land ; loiter under the shady lee of yonder warehouse will not suffice . no . they must get just as nigh the water as they possibly can without fall in . and there they stand -- mile of they -- league . inlander all , they come from lane and alley , street and avenue -- north , east , south , and west . yet here they all unite . tell i , do the magnetic virtue of the needle of the compass of all those ship attract they thither ?
once more . say you be in the country ; in some high land of lake . take almost any path you please , and ten to one it carry you down in a dale , and leave you there by a pool in the stream . there be magic in it . let the most absent - minded of man be plunge in his deep revery -- stand that man on his leg , set his foot a - going , and he will infallibly lead you to water , if water there be in all that region . should you ever be athirst in the great american desert , try this experiment , if your caravan happen to be supply with a metaphysical professor . yes , as every one know , meditation and water be wed for ever .
but here be an artist . he desire to paint you the dreamy , shady , quiet , most enchanting bit of romantic landscape in all the valley of the saco . what be the chief element he employ ? there stand his tree , each with a hollow trunk , as if a hermit and a crucifix be within ; and here sleep his meadow , and there sleep his cattle ; and up from yonder cottage go a sleepy smoke . deep into distant woodland wind a mazy way , reach to overlap spur of mountain bath in their hill - side blue . but though the picture lie thus trance , and though this pine - tree shake down its sigh like leaf upon this shepherd 's head , yet all be vain , unless the shepherd 's eye be fix upon the magic stream before he . go visit the prairies in june , when for score on score of mile you wade knee - deep among tiger - lily -- what be the one charm wanting?--water -- there be not a drop of water there ! be niagara but a cataract of sand , would you travel your thousand mile to see it ? why do the poor poet of tennessee , upon suddenly receive two handful of silver , deliberate whether to buy he a coat , which he sadly need , or invest his money in a pedestrian trip to rockaway beach ? why be almost every robust healthy boy with a robust healthy soul in he , at some time or other crazy to go to sea ? why upon your first voyage as a passenger , do you yourself feel such a mystical vibration , when first tell that you and your ship be now out of sight of land ? why do the old persians hold the sea holy ? why do the greeks give it a separate deity , and own brother of jove ? surely all this be not without meaning . and still deep the meaning of that story of narcissus , who because he could not grasp the tormenting , mild image he see in the fountain , plunge into it and be drown . but that same image , we ourselves see in all river and ocean . it be the image of the ungraspable phantom of life ; and this be the key to it all .
now , when i say that i be in the habit of go to sea whenever i begin to grow hazy about the eye , and begin to be over conscious of my lung , i do not mean to have it infer that i ever go to sea as a passenger . for to go as a passenger you must needs have a purse , and a purse be but a rag unless you have something in it . besides , passenger get sea - sick -- grow quarrelsome -- don't sleep of night -- do not enjoy themselves much , as a general thing;--no , i never go as a passenger ; nor , though i be something of a salt , do i ever go to sea as a commodore , or a captain , or a cook . i abandon the glory and distinction of such office to those who like they . for my part , i abominate all honourable respectable toil , trial , and tribulation of every kind whatsoever . it be quite as much as i can do to take care of myself , without take care of ship , barque , brig , schooner , and what not . and as for go as cook,--though i confess there be considerable glory in that , a cook be a sort of officer on ship - board -- yet , somehow , i never fancy broil fowls;--though once broil , judiciously butter , and judgmatically salt and pepper , there be no one who will speak more respectfully , not to say reverentially , of a broil fowl than i will . it be out of the idolatrous doting of the old egyptians upon broil ibis and roasted river horse , that you see the mummy of those creature in their huge bake - house the pyramid .
no , when i go to sea , i go as a simple sailor , right before the mast , plumb down into the forecastle , aloft there to the royal mast - head . true , they rather order i about some , and make i jump from spar to spar , like a grasshopper in a may meadow . and at first , this sort of thing be unpleasant enough . it touch one 's sense of honour , particularly if you come of an old establish family in the land , the van rensselaers , or randolphs , or hardicanute . and more than all , if just previous to put your hand into the tar - pot , you have be lord it as a country schoolmaster , make the tall boy stand in awe of you . the transition be a keen one , i assure you , from a schoolmaster to a sailor , and require a strong decoction of seneca and the stoics to enable you to grin and bear it . but even this wear off in time .
what of it , if some old hunk of a sea - captain order i to get a broom and sweep down the deck ? what do that indignity amount to , weigh , i mean , in the scale of the new testament ? do you think the archangel gabriel think anything the less of i , because i promptly and respectfully obey that old hunk in that particular instance ? who be not a slave ? tell i that . well , then , however the old sea - captain may order i about -- however they may thump and punch i about , i have the satisfaction of know that it be all right ; that everybody else be one way or other serve in much the same way -- either in a physical or metaphysical point of view , that be ; and so the universal thump be pass round , and all hand should rub each other 's shoulder - blade , and be content .
again , i always go to sea as a sailor , because they make a point of pay i for my trouble , whereas they never pay passenger a single penny that i ever hear of . on the contrary , passenger themselves must pay . and there be all the difference in the world between pay and be pay . the act of pay be perhaps the most uncomfortable infliction that the two orchard thief entail upon we . but be paid,--what will compare with it ? the urbane activity with which a man receive money be really marvellous , consider that we so earnestly believe money to be the root of all earthly ill , and that on no account can a monied man enter heaven . ah ! how cheerfully we consign ourselves to perdition !
finally , i always go to sea as a sailor , because of the wholesome exercise and pure air of the fore - castle deck . for as in this world , head wind be far more prevalent than wind from astern ( that be , if you never violate the pythagorean maxim ) , so for the most part the commodore on the quarter - deck get his atmosphere at second hand from the sailor on the forecastle . he think he breathe it first ; but not so . in much the same way do the commonalty lead their leader in many other thing , at the same time that the leader little suspect it . but wherefore it be that after having repeatedly smell the sea as a merchant sailor , i should now take it into my head to go on a whale voyage ; this the invisible police officer of the fates , who have the constant surveillance of i , and secretly dog i , and influence i in some unaccountable way -- he can well answer than any one else . and , doubtless , my go on this whale voyage , form part of the grand programme of providence that be draw up a long time ago . it come in as a sort of brief interlude and solo between more extensive performance . i take it that this part of the bill must have run something like this :
" grand contest election for the presidency of the united states . " whale voyage by one ishmael . " bloody battle in affghanistan . "
though i can not tell why it be exactly that those stage manager , the fates , put i down for this shabby part of a whale voyage , when other be set down for magnificent part in high tragedy , and short and easy part in genteel comedy , and jolly part in farce -- though i can not tell why this be exactly ; yet , now that i recall all the circumstance , i think i can see a little into the spring and motif which be cunningly present to i under various disguise , induce i to set about perform the part i do , besides cajole i into the delusion that it be a choice result from my own unbiased freewill and discriminate judgment .
chief among these motif be the overwhelming idea of the great whale himself . such a portentous and mysterious monster rouse all my curiosity . then the wild and distant sea where he roll his island bulk ; the undeliverable , nameless peril of the whale ; these , with all the attend marvel of a thousand patagonian sight and sound , help to sway i to my wish . with other man , perhaps , such thing would not have be inducement ; but as for i , i be torment with an everlasting itch for thing remote . i love to sail forbidden sea , and land on barbarous coast . not ignore what be good , i be quick to perceive a horror , and could still be social with it -- would they let i -- since it be but well to be on friendly term with all the inmate of the place one lodge in .
by reason of these thing , then , the whale voyage be welcome ; the great flood - gate of the wonder - world swung open , and in the wild conceit that sway i to my purpose , two and two there float into my inmost soul , endless procession of the whale , and , mid most of they all , one grand hooded phantom , like a snow hill in the air .
chapter 2
the carpet - bag .
i stuff a shirt or two into my old carpet - bag , tuck it under my arm , and start for cape horn and the pacific . quit the good city of old manhatto , i duly arrive in new bedford . it be a saturday night in december . much be i disappoint upon learn that the little packet for nantucket have already sail , and that no way of reach that place would offer , till the following monday .
as most young candidate for the pain and penalty of whale stop at this same new bedford , thence to embark on their voyage , it may as well be relate that i , for one , have no idea of so do . for my mind be make up to sail in no other than a nantucket craft , because there be a fine , boisterous something about everything connect with that famous old island , which amazingly please i . besides though new bedford have of late be gradually monopolise the business of whaling , and though in this matter poor old nantucket be now much behind she , yet nantucket be her great original -- the tyre of this carthage;--the place where the first dead american whale be strand . where else but from nantucket do those aboriginal whaleman , the red - men , first sally out in canoe to give chase to the leviathan ? and where but from nantucket , too , do that first adventurous little sloop put forth , partly laden with import cobblestone -- so go the story -- to throw at the whale , in order to discover when they be nigh enough to risk a harpoon from the bowsprit ?
now have a night , a day , and still another night follow before i in new bedford , ere i could embark for my destine port , it become a matter of concernment where i be to eat and sleep meanwhile . it be a very dubious - look , nay , a very dark and dismal night , bitingly cold and cheerless . i know no one in the place . with anxious grapnel i have sound my pocket , and only bring up a few piece of silver,--so , wherever you go , ishmael , say i to myself , as i stand in the middle of a dreary street shoulder my bag , and compare the gloom towards the north with the darkness towards the south -- wherever in your wisdom you may conclude to lodge for the night , my dear ishmael , be sure to inquire the price , and do not be too particular .
with halting step i pace the street , and pass the sign of " the crossed harpoons"--but it look too expensive and jolly there . far on , from the bright red window of the " sword - fish inn , " there come such fervent ray , that it seem to have melt the pack snow and ice from before the house , for everywhere else the congeal frost lie ten inch thick in a hard , asphaltic pavement,--rather weary for i , when i strike my foot against the flinty projection , because from hard , remorseless service the sol of my boot be in a most miserable plight . too expensive and jolly , again think i , pause one moment to watch the broad glare in the street , and hear the sound of the tinkle glass within . but go on , ishmael , say i at last ; do not you hear ? get away from before the door ; your patched boot be stop the way . so on i go . i now by instinct follow the street that take i waterward , for there , doubtless , be the cheap , if not the cheery inn .
such dreary street ! block of blackness , not house , on either hand , and here and there a candle , like a candle move about in a tomb . at this hour of the night , of the last day of the week , that quarter of the town prove all but deserted . but presently i come to a smoky light proceed from a low , wide building , the door of which stand invitingly open . it have a careless look , as if it be mean for the us of the public ; so , enter , the first thing i do be to stumble over an ash - box in the porch . ha ! think i , ha , as the fly particle almost choke i , be these ash from that destroy city , gomorrah ? but " the crossed harpoon , " and " the sword - fish?"--this , then must need be the sign of " the trap . " however , i pick myself up and hear a loud voice within , push on and open a second , interior door .
it seem the great black parliament sit in tophet . a hundred black face turn round in their row to peer ; and beyond , a black angel of doom be beat a book in a pulpit . it be a negro church ; and the preacher 's text be about the blackness of darkness , and the weeping and wail and tooth - gnashing there . ha , ishmael , mutter i , back out , wretched entertainment at the sign of ' the trap ! '
move on , i at last come to a dim sort of light not far from the dock , and hear a forlorn creaking in the air ; and look up , see a swinging sign over the door with a white painting upon it , faintly represent a tall straight jet of misty spray , and these word underneath--"the spouter inn:--peter coffin . "
coffin?--spouter?--rather ominous in that particular connexion , think i. but it be a common name in nantucket , they say , and i suppose this peter here be an emigrant from there . as the light look so dim , and the place , for the time , look quiet enough , and the dilapidated little wooden house itself look as if it might have be cart here from the ruin of some burn district , and as the swing sign have a poverty - stricken sort of creak to it , i think that here be the very spot for cheap lodging , and the good of pea coffee .
it be a queer sort of place -- a gable - end old house , one side palsy as it be , and lean over sadly . it stand on a sharp bleak corner , where that tempestuous wind euroclydon keep up a bad howling than ever it do about poor paul 's toss craft . euroclydon , nevertheless , be a mighty pleasant zephyr to any one in - door , with his foot on the hob quietly toast for bed . " in judging of that tempestuous wind call euroclydon , " say an old writer -- of whose work i possess the only copy extant--"it maketh a marvellous difference , whether thou lookest out at it from a glass window where the frost be all on the outside , or whether thou observ it from that sashless window , where the frost be on both side , and of which the wight death be the only glazier . " true enough , think i , as this passage occur to my mind -- old black - letter , thou reason well . yes , these eye be window , and this body of mine be the house . what a pity they do not stop up the chink and the cranny though , and thrust in a little lint here and there . but it be too late to make any improvement now . the universe be finish ; the copestone be on , and the chip be cart off a million year ago . poor lazarus there , chatter his tooth against the curbstone for his pillow , and shake off his tatter with his shivering , he might plug up both ear with rag , and put a corn - cob into his mouth , and yet that would not keep out the tempestuous euroclydon . euroclydon ! say old dives , in his red silken wrapper--(he have a red one afterwards ) pooh , pooh ! what a fine frosty night ; how orion glitter ; what northern light ! let they talk of their oriental summer clime of everlasting conservatory ; give i the privilege of make my own summer with my own coal .
but what think lazarus ? can he warm his blue hand by hold they up to the grand northern light ? would not lazarus rather be in sumatra than here ? would he not far rather lie he down lengthwise along the line of the equator ; yea , ye god ! go down to the fiery pit itself , in order to keep out this frost ?
now , that lazarus should lie strand there on the curbstone before the door of dive , this be more wonderful than that an iceberg should be moor to one of the moluccas . yet dive himself , he too live like a czar in an ice palace make of frozen sigh , and be a president of a temperance society , he only drink the tepid tear of orphan .
but no more of this blubbering now , we be go a - whaling , and there be plenty of that yet to come . let we scrape the ice from our frosted foot , and see what sort of a place this " spouter " may be .
chapter 3
the spouter - inn .
enter that gable - end spouter - inn , you find yourself in a wide , low , straggle entry with old - fashioned wainscot , remind one of the bulwark of some condemn old craft . on one side hang a very large oilpainting so thoroughly besmoke , and every way deface , that in the unequal crosslight by which you view it , it be only by diligent study and a series of systematic visit to it , and careful inquiry of the neighbor , that you could any way arrive at an understanding of its purpose . such unaccountable mass of shade and shadow , that at first you almost think some ambitious young artist , in the time of the new england hag , have endeavor to delineate chaos bewitch . but by dint of much and earnest contemplation , and oft repeat pondering , and especially by throw open the little window towards the back of the entry , you at last come to the conclusion that such an idea , however wild , might not be altogether unwarranted .
but what most puzzle and confound you be a long , limber , portentous , black mass of something hover in the centre of the picture over three blue , dim , perpendicular line float in a nameless yeast . a boggy , soggy , squitchy picture truly , enough to drive a nervous man distract . yet be there a sort of indefinite , half - attain , unimaginable sublimity about it that fairly froze you to it , till you involuntarily take an oath with yourself to find out what that marvellous painting mean . ever and anon a bright , but , alas , deceptive idea would dart you through.--it 's the black sea in a midnight gale.--it 's the unnatural combat of the four primal elements.--it 's a blasted heath.--it 's a hyperborean winter scene.--it 's the breaking - up of the icebound stream of time . but at last all these fancy yield to that one portentous something in the picture 's midst . that once find out , and all the rest be plain . but stop ; do it not bear a faint resemblance to a gigantic fish ? even the great leviathan himself ?
in fact , the artist 's design seem this : a final theory of my own , partly base upon the aggregated opinion of many aged person with whom i converse upon the subject . the picture represent a cape - horner in a great hurricane ; the half - foundered ship welter there with its three dismantle mast alone visible ; and an exasperated whale , purpose to spring clean over the craft , be in the enormous act of impale himself upon the three mast - head .
the opposite wall of this entry be hang all over with a heathenish array of monstrous club and spear . some be thickly set with glitter tooth resemble ivory saw ; other be tufte with knot of human hair ; and one be sickle - shape , with a vast handle sweep round like the segment make in the new - mow grass by a long - armed mower . you shudder as you gaze , and wonder what monstrous cannibal and savage could ever have go a death - harvesting with such a hacking , horrify implement . mix with these be rusty old whaling lance and harpoon all break and deform . some be story weapon . with this once long lance , now wildly elbow , fifty year ago do nathan swain kill fifteen whale between a sunrise and a sunset . and that harpoon -- so like a corkscrew now -- be fling in javan sea , and run away with by a whale , year afterwards slay off the cape of blanco . the original iron enter nigh the tail , and , like a restless needle sojourn in the body of a man , travel full forty foot , and at last be find imbed in the hump .
cross this dusky entry , and on through yon low - arch way -- cut through what in old time must have be a great central chimney with fireplace all round -- you enter the public room . a still dusky place be this , with such low ponderous beam above , and such old wrinkle plank beneath , that you would almost fancy you trod some old craft 's cockpit , especially of such a howl night , when this corner - anchor old ark rock so furiously . on one side stand a long , low , shelf - like table cover with crack glass case , fill with dusty rarity gather from this wide world 's remotest nook . project from the further angle of the room stand a dark - look den -- the bar -- a rude attempt at a right whale 's head . be that how it may , there stand the vast arched bone of the whale 's jaw , so wide , a coach might almost drive beneath it . within be shabby shelf , range round with old decanter , bottle , flask ; and in those jaw of swift destruction , like another curse jonah ( by which name indeed they call he ) , bustle a little wither old man , who , for their money , dearly sell the sailor delirium and death .
abominable be the tumbler into which he pour his poison . though true cylinder without -- within , the villanous green goggling glass deceitfully taper downwards to a cheat bottom . parallel meridian rudely peck into the glass , surround these footpad ' goblet . fill to this mark , and your charge be but a penny ; to this a penny more ; and so on to the full glass -- the cape horn measure , which you may gulp down for a shilling .
upon enter the place i find a number of young seaman gather about a table , examine by a dim light diver specimen of skrimshander . i seek the landlord , and tell he i desire to be accommodate with a room , receive for answer that his house be full -- not a bed unoccupied . " but avast , " he add , tap his forehead , " you haint no objection to share a harpooneer 's blanket , have ye ? i s'pose you be go a - whalin ' , so you would well get use to that sort of thing . "
i tell he that i never like to sleep two in a bed ; that if i should ever do so , it would depend upon who the harpooneer might be , and that if he ( the landlord ) really have no other place for i , and the harpooneer be not decidedly objectionable , why rather than wander far about a strange town on so bitter a night , i would put up with the half of any decent man 's blanket .
" i think so . all right ; take a seat . supper?--you want supper ? supper'll be ready directly . "
i sit down on an old wooden settle , carve all over like a bench on the battery . at one end a ruminate tar be still far adorn it with his jack - knife , stoop over and diligently work away at the space between his leg . he be try his hand at a ship under full sail , but he do not make much headway , i think .
at last some four or five of we be summon to our meal in an adjoining room . it be cold as iceland -- no fire at all -- the landlord say he could not afford it . nothing but two dismal tallow candle , each in a wind sheet . we be fain to button up our monkey jacket , and hold to our lip cup of scald tea with our half frozen finger . but the fare be of the most substantial kind -- not only meat and potato , but dumpling ; good heaven ! dumpling for supper ! one young fellow in a green box coat , address himself to these dumpling in a most direful manner .
" my boy , " say the landlord , " you will have the nightmare to a dead sartainty . "
" landlord , " i whisper , " that be not the harpooneer be it ? "
" oh , no , " say he , look a sort of diabolically funny , " the harpooneer be a dark complexion chap . he never eat dumpling , he don't -- he eat nothing but steak , and he like them rare . "
" the devil he do , " say i. " where be that harpooneer ? be he here ? "
" he will be here afore long , " be the answer .
i could not help it , but i begin to feel suspicious of this " dark complexion " harpooneer . at any rate , i make up my mind that if it so turn out that we should sleep together , he must undress and get into bed before i do .
supper over , the company go back to the bar - room , when , know not what else to do with myself , i resolve to spend the rest of the evening as a looker on .
presently a rioting noise be hear without . start up , the landlord cry , " that be the grampus 's crew . i seed she report in the offing this morning ; a three year ' voyage , and a full ship . hurrah , boy ; now we will have the late news from the feegees . "
a tramping of sea boot be hear in the entry ; the door be fling open , and in roll a wild set of mariner enough . envelop in their shaggy watch coat , and with their head muffle in woollen comforter , all bedarne and rag , and their beard stiff with icicle , they seem an eruption of bear from labrador . they have just land from their boat , and this be the first house they enter . no wonder , then , that they make a straight wake for the whale 's mouth -- the bar -- when the wrinkle little old jonah , there officiating , soon pour they out brimmer all round . one complain of a bad cold in his head , upon which jonah mix he a pitch - like potion of gin and molasse , which he swear be a sovereign cure for all cold and catarrhs whatsoever , never mind of how long stand , or whether catch off the coast of labrador , or on the weather side of an ice - island .
the liquor soon mount into their head , as it generally do even with the arrant toper newly land from sea , and they begin caper about most obstreperously .
i observe , however , that one of they hold somewhat aloof , and though he seem desirous not to spoil the hilarity of his shipmate by his own sober face , yet upon the whole he refrain from make as much noise as the rest . this man interest i at once ; and since the sea - god have ordain that he should soon become my shipmate ( though but a sleeping - partner one , so far as this narrative be concern ) , i will here venture upon a little description of he . he stand full six foot in height , with noble shoulder , and a chest like a coffer - dam . i have seldom see such brawn in a man . his face be deeply brown and burn , make his white tooth dazzle by the contrast ; while in the deep shadow of his eye float some reminiscence that do not seem to give he much joy . his voice at once announce that he be a southerner , and from his fine stature , i think he must be one of those tall mountaineer from the alleghanian ridge in virginia . when the revelry of his companion have mount to its height , this man slip away unobserved , and i see no more of he till he become my comrade on the sea . in a few minute , however , he be miss by his shipmate , and be , it seem , for some reason a huge favourite with they , they raise a cry of " bulkington ! bulkington ! where be bulkington ? " and dart out of the house in pursuit of he .
it be now about nine o'clock , and the room seem almost supernaturally quiet after these orgy , i begin to congratulate myself upon a little plan that have occur to i just previous to the entrance of the seaman .
no man prefer to sleep two in a bed . in fact , you would a good deal rather not sleep with your own brother . i do not know how it be , but people like to be private when they be sleep . and when it come to sleep with an unknown stranger , in a strange inn , in a strange town , and that stranger a harpooneer , then your objection indefinitely multiply . nor be there any earthly reason why i as a sailor should sleep two in a bed , more than anybody else ; for sailor no more sleep two in a bed at sea , than bachelor king do ashore . to be sure they all sleep together in one apartment , but you have your own hammock , and cover yourself with your own blanket , and sleep in your own skin .
the more i ponder over this harpooneer , the more i abominate the thought of sleep with he . it be fair to presume that be a harpooneer , his linen or woollen , as the case might be , would not be of the tidiest , certainly none of the fine . i begin to twitch all over . besides , it be get late , and my decent harpooneer ought to be home and going bedward . suppose now , he should tumble in upon i at midnight -- how could i tell from what vile hole he have be come ?
" landlord ! i have change my mind about that harpooneer.--i shall not sleep with he . i will try the bench here . "
" just as you please ; i be sorry i can not spare ye a tablecloth for a mattress , and it be a plaguy rough board here"--feeling of the knot and notch . " but wait a bit , skrimshander ; i have get a carpenter 's plane there in the bar -- wait , i say , and i will make ye snug enough . " so say he procure the plane ; and with his old silk handkerchief first dust the bench , vigorously set to plan away at my bed , the while grin like an ape . the shaving fly right and leave ; till at last the plane - iron come bump against an indestructible knot . the landlord be near sprain his wrist , and i tell he for heaven 's sake to quit -- the bed be soft enough to suit i , and i do not know how all the planing in the world could make eider down of a pine plank . so gather up the shaving with another grin , and throw they into the great stove in the middle of the room , he go about his business , and leave i in a brown study .
i now take the measure of the bench , and find that it be a foot too short ; but that could be mend with a chair . but it be a foot too narrow , and the other bench in the room be about four inch high than the plan one -- so there be no yoke they . i then place the first bench lengthwise along the only clear space against the wall , leave a little interval between , for my back to settle down in . but i soon find that there come such a draught of cold air over i from under the sill of the window , that this plan would never do at all , especially as another current from the rickety door meet the one from the window , and both together form a series of small whirlwind in the immediate vicinity of the spot where i have think to spend the night .
the devil fetch that harpooneer , think i , but stop , could not i steal a march on he -- bolt his door inside , and jump into his bed , not to be waken by the most violent knocking ? it seem no bad idea ; but upon second thought i dismiss it . for who could tell but what the next morning , so soon as i pop out of the room , the harpooneer might be stand in the entry , all ready to knock i down !
still , look round i again , and see no possible chance of spend a sufferable night unless in some other person 's bed , i begin to think that after all i might be cherish unwarrantable prejudice against this unknown harpooneer . think i , i will wait awhile ; he must be drop in before long . i will have a good look at he then , and perhaps we may become jolly good bedfellow after all -- there be no telling .
but though the other boarder keep come in by one , two , and three , and go to bed , yet no sign of my harpooneer .
" landlord ! say i , " what sort of a chap be he -- do he always keep such late hour ? " it be now hard upon twelve o'clock .
the landlord chuckle again with his lean chuckle , and seem to be mightily tickle at something beyond my comprehension . " no , " he answer , " generally he be an early bird -- airley to bed and airley to rise -- yes , he be the bird what catch the worm . but to - night he go out a peddling , you see , and i do not see what on airth keep he so late , unless , may be , he can not sell his head . "
" can not sell his head?--what sort of a bamboozingly story be this you be tell i ? " get into a tower rage . " do you pretend to say , landlord , that this harpooneer be actually engage this blessed saturday night , or rather sunday morning , in peddle his head around this town ? "
" that be precisely it , " say the landlord , " and i tell he he could not sell it here , the market 's overstock . "
" with what ? " shout i.
" with head to be sure ; be not there too many head in the world ? "
" i tell you what it be , landlord , " say i quite calmly , " you would well stop spin that yarn to i -- i'm not green . "
" may be not , " take out a stick and whittle a toothpick , " but i rayther guess you will be do brown if that ere harpooneer hear you a slanderin ' his head . "
" i will break it for he , " say i , now fly into a passion again at this unaccountable farrago of the landlord 's .
" it be broke a'ready , " say he .
" break , " say i--"broke , do you mean ? "
" sartain , and that be the very reason he can not sell it , i guess . "
" landlord , " say i , go up to he as cool as mt. hecla in a snow - storm--"landlord , stop whittle . you and i must understand one another , and that too without delay . i come to your house and want a bed ; you tell i you can only give i half a one ; that the other half belong to a certain harpooneer . and about this harpooneer , whom i have not yet see , you persist in tell i the most mystifying and exasperating story tend to beget in i an uncomfortable feeling towards the man whom you design for my bedfellow -- a sort of connexion , landlord , which be an intimate and confidential one in the high degree . i now demand of you to speak out and tell i who and what this harpooneer be , and whether i shall be in all respect safe to spend the night with he . and in the first place , you will be so good as to unsay that story about sell his head , which if true i take to be good evidence that this harpooneer be stark mad , and i have no idea of sleep with a madman ; and you , sir , you i mean , landlord , you , sir , by try to induce i to do so knowingly , would thereby render yourself liable to a criminal prosecution . "
" wall , " say the landlord , fetch a long breath , " that be a purty long sarmon for a chap that rip a little now and then . but be easy , be easy , this here harpooneer i have be tellin ' you of have just arrive from the south sea , where he buy up a lot of ' balme new zealand head ( great curio , you know ) , and he be sell all on them but one , and that one he be try to sell to - night , cause to - morrow 's sunday , and it would not do to be sellin ' human head about the street when folk be go to church . he want to , last sunday , but i stop he just as he be go out of the door with four head string on a string , for all the airth like a string of inion . "
this account clear up the otherwise unaccountable mystery , and show that the landlord , after all , have have no idea of fool i -- but at the same time what could i think of a harpooneer who stay out of a saturday night clean into the holy sabbath , engage in such a cannibal business as sell the head of dead idolator ?
" depend upon it , landlord , that harpooneer be a dangerous man . "
" he pay reg'lar , " be the rejoinder . " but come , it be get dreadful late , you have well be turn fluke -- it be a nice bed ; sal and i sleep in that ere bed the night we be splice . there be plenty of room for two to kick about in that bed ; it be an almighty big bed that . why , afore we give it up , sal use to put our sam and little johnny in the foot of it . but i get a dreaming and sprawl about one night , and somehow , sam get pitch on the floor , and come near break his arm . arter that , sal say it would not do . come along here , i will give ye a glim in a jiffy ; " and so say he light a candle and hold it towards i , offer to lead the way . but i stand irresolute ; when look at a clock in the corner , he exclaim " i vum it be sunday -- you will not see that harpooneer to - night ; he be come to anchor somewhere -- come along then ; do come ; won't ye come ? "
i consider the matter a moment , and then up stair we go , and i be usher into a small room , cold as a clam , and furnish , sure enough , with a prodigious bed , almost big enough indeed for any four harpooneer to sleep abreast .
" there , " say the landlord , place the candle on a crazy old sea chest that do double duty as a wash - stand and centre table ; " there , make yourself comfortable now , and good night to ye . " i turn round from eye the bed , but he have disappear .
fold back the counterpane , i stoop over the bed . though none of the most elegant , it yet stand the scrutiny tolerably well . i then glance round the room ; and besides the bedstead and centre table , could see no other furniture belong to the place , but a rude shelf , the four wall , and a paper fireboard represent a man strike a whale . of thing not properly belong to the room , there be a hammock lash up , and throw upon the floor in one corner ; also a large seaman 's bag , contain the harpooneer 's wardrobe , no doubt in lieu of a land trunk . likewise , there be a parcel of outlandish bone fish hook on the shelf over the fire - place , and a tall harpoon stand at the head of the bed .
but what be this on the chest ? i take it up , and hold it close to the light , and feel it , and smell it , and try every way possible to arrive at some satisfactory conclusion concern it . i can compare it to nothing but a large door mat , ornament at the edge with little tinkle tag something like the stain porcupine quill round an indian moccasin . there be a hole or slit in the middle of this mat , as you see the same in south american ponchos . but could it be possible that any sober harpooneer would get into a door mat , and parade the street of any christian town in that sort of guise ? i put it on , to try it , and it weigh i down like a hamper , be uncommonly shaggy and thick , and i think a little damp , as though this mysterious harpooneer have be wear it of a rainy day . i go up in it to a bit of glass stick against the wall , and i never see such a sight in my life . i tear myself out of it in such a hurry that i give myself a kink in the neck .
i sit down on the side of the bed , and commence thinking about this head - peddling harpooneer , and his door mat . after think some time on the bed - side , i get up and take off my monkey jacket , and then stand in the middle of the room thinking . i then take off my coat , and think a little more in my shirt sleeve . but begin to feel very cold now , half undressed as i be , and remember what the landlord say about the harpooneer be not come home at all that night , it be so very late , i make no more ado , but jump out of my pantaloon and boot , and then blow out the light tumble into bed , and commend myself to the care of heaven .
whether that mattress be stuff with corn - cobs or broken crockery , there be no telling , but i roll about a good deal , and could not sleep for a long time . at last i slide off into a light doze , and have pretty nearly make a good offing towards the land of nod , when i hear a heavy footfall in the passage , and see a glimmer of light come into the room from under the door .
lord save i , think i , that must be the harpooneer , the infernal head - peddler . but i lay perfectly still , and resolve not to say a word till speak to . hold a light in one hand , and that identical new zealand head in the other , the stranger enter the room , and without look towards the bed , place his candle a good way off from i on the floor in one corner , and then begin work away at the knot cord of the large bag i before speak of as be in the room . i be all eagerness to see his face , but he keep it avert for some time while employ in unlace the bag 's mouth . this accomplished , however , he turn round -- when , good heaven ! what a sight ! such a face ! it be of a dark , purplish , yellow colour , here and there stick over with large blackish look square . yes , it be just as i think , he be a terrible bedfellow ; he be be in a fight , get dreadfully cut , and here he be , just from the surgeon . but at that moment he chance to turn his face so towards the light , that i plainly see they could not be stick - plaster at all , those black square on his cheek . they be stain of some sort or other . at first i know not what to make of this ; but soon an inkling of the truth occur to i . i remember a story of a white man -- a whaleman too -- who , fall among the cannibal , have be tattoo by they . i conclude that this harpooneer , in the course of his distant voyage , must have meet with a similar adventure . and what be it , think i , after all ! it be only his outside ; a man can be honest in any sort of skin . but then , what to make of his unearthly complexion , that part of it , i mean , lie round about , and completely independent of the square of tattooing . to be sure , it might be nothing but a good coat of tropical tanning ; but i never hear of a hot sun 's tan a white man into a purplish yellow one . however , i have never be in the south seas ; and perhaps the sun there produce these extraordinary effect upon the skin . now , while all these idea be pass through i like lightning , this harpooneer never notice i at all . but , after some difficulty having open his bag , he commence fumble in it , and presently pull out a sort of tomahawk , and a seal - skin wallet with the hair on . place these on the old chest in the middle of the room , he then take the new zealand head -- a ghastly thing enough -- and cram it down into the bag . he now take off his hat -- a new beaver hat -- when i come nigh sing out with fresh surprise . there be no hair on his head -- none to speak of at least -- nothing but a small scalp - knot twist up on his forehead . his bald purplish head now look for all the world like a mildew skull . have not the stranger stand between i and the door , i would have bolt out of it quick than ever i bolt a dinner .
even as it be , i think something of slip out of the window , but it be the second floor back . i be no coward , but what to make of this head - peddle purple rascal altogether pass my comprehension . ignorance be the parent of fear , and be completely nonplus and confound about the stranger , i confess i be now as much afraid of he as if it be the devil himself who have thus break into my room at the dead of night . in fact , i be so afraid of he that i be not game enough just then to address he , and demand a satisfactory answer concern what seem inexplicable in he .
meanwhile , he continue the business of undressing , and at last show his chest and arm . as i live , these cover part of he be checker with the same square as his face ; his back , too , be all over the same dark square ; he seem to have be in a thirty years ' war , and just escape from it with a sticking - plaster shirt . still more , his very leg be mark , as if a parcel of dark green frog be run up the trunk of young palm . it be now quite plain that he must be some abominable savage or other ship aboard of a whaleman in the south seas , and so land in this christian country . i quake to think of it . a peddler of head too -- perhaps the head of his own brother . he might take a fancy to mine -- heaven ! look at that tomahawk !
but there be no time for shudder , for now the savage go about something that completely fascinate my attention , and convince i that he must indeed be a heathen . go to his heavy grego , or wrapall , or dreadnaught , which he have previously hang on a chair , he fumble in the pocket , and produce at length a curious little deform image with a hunch on its back , and exactly the colour of a three day ' old congo baby . remember the embalmed head , at first i almost think that this black manikin be a real baby preserve in some similar manner . but see that it be not at all limber , and that it glisten a good deal like polished ebony , i conclude that it must be nothing but a wooden idol , which indeed it prove to be . for now the savage go up to the empty fire - place , and remove the paper fire - board , set up this little hunch - back image , like a tenpin , between the andiron . the chimney jambs and all the brick inside be very sooty , so that i think this fire - place make a very appropriate little shrine or chapel for his congo idol .
i now screw my eye hard towards the half hide image , feeling but ill at ease meantime -- to see what be next to follow . first he take about a double handful of shaving out of his grego pocket , and place they carefully before the idol ; then lay a bit of ship biscuit on top and apply the flame from the lamp , he kindle the shaving into a sacrificial blaze . presently , after many hasty snatch into the fire , and still hasty withdrawal of his finger ( whereby he seem to be scorch they badly ) , he at last succeed in draw out the biscuit ; then blow off the heat and ash a little , he make a polite offer of it to the little negro . but the little devil do not seem to fancy such dry sort of fare at all ; he never move his lip . all these strange antic be accompany by still stranger guttural noise from the devotee , who seem to be pray in a sing - song or else sing some pagan psalmody or other , during which his face twitch about in the most unnatural manner . at last extinguish the fire , he take the idol up very unceremoniously , and bag it again in his grego pocket as carelessly as if he be a sportsman bag a dead woodcock .
all these queer proceeding increase my uncomfortableness , and see he now exhibit strong symptom of conclude his business operation , and jump into bed with i , i think it be high time , now or never , before the light be put out , to break the spell in which i have so long be bind .
but the interval i spend in deliberate what to say , be a fatal one . take up his tomahawk from the table , he examine the head of it for an instant , and then hold it to the light , with his mouth at the handle , he puff out great cloud of tobacco smoke . the next moment the light be extinguish , and this wild cannibal , tomahawk between his tooth , spring into bed with i . i sing out , i could not help it now ; and give a sudden grunt of astonishment he begin feel i .
stammer out something , i know not what , i roll away from he against the wall , and then conjure he , whoever or whatever he might be , to keep quiet , and let i get up and light the lamp again . but his guttural response satisfy i at once that he but ill comprehend my meaning .
" who - e debel you?"--he at last said--"you no speak - e , dam - i , i kill - e. " and so say the lighted tomahawk begin flourish about i in the dark .
" landlord , for god 's sake , peter coffin ! " shout i. " landlord ! watch ! coffin ! angel ! save i ! "
" speak - e ! tell - ee i who - ee be , or dam - i , i kill - e ! " again growl the cannibal , while his horrid flourishing of the tomahawk scatter the hot tobacco ash about i till i think my linen would get on fire . but thank heaven , at that moment the landlord come into the room light in hand , and leap from the bed i run up to he .
" do not be afraid now , " say he , grin again , " queequeg here would not harm a hair of your head . "
" stop your grinning , " shout i , " and why do not you tell i that that infernal harpooneer be a cannibal ? "
" i think ye know'd it;--didn't i tell ye , he be a peddlin ' head around town?--but turn fluke again and go to sleep . queequeg , look here -- you sabbee i , i sabbee -- you this man sleepe you -- you sabbee ? "
" i sabbee plenty"--grunted queequeg , puff away at his pipe and sit up in bed .
" you gettee in , " he add , motion to i with his tomahawk , and throw the clothe to one side . he really do this in not only a civil but a really kind and charitable way . i stand look at he a moment . for all his tattooing he be on the whole a clean , comely look cannibal . what be all this fuss i have be make about , think i to myself -- the man be a human being just as i be : he have just as much reason to fear i , as i have to be afraid of he . well sleep with a sober cannibal than a drunken christian .
" landlord , " say i , " tell he to stash his tomahawk there , or pipe , or whatever you call it ; tell he to stop smoking , in short , and i will turn in with he . but i do not fancy have a man smoke in bed with i . it be dangerous . besides , i be not insure . "
this be tell to queequeg , he at once comply , and again politely motion i to get into bed -- roll over to one side as much as to say -- i will not touch a leg of ye . "
" good night , landlord , " say i , " you may go . "
i turn in , and never sleep well in my life .
chapter 4
the counterpane .
upon wake next morning about daylight , i find queequeg 's arm throw over i in the most loving and affectionate manner . you have almost think i have be his wife . the counterpane be of patchwork , full of odd little parti - colour square and triangle ; and this arm of his tattooed all over with an interminable cretan labyrinth of a figure , no two part of which be of one precise shade -- owe i suppose to his keep his arm at sea unmethodically in sun and shade , his shirt sleeve irregularly roll up at various time -- this same arm of his , i say , look for all the world like a strip of that same patchwork quilt . indeed , partly lie on it as the arm do when i first awake , i could hardly tell it from the quilt , they so blend their hue together ; and it be only by the sense of weight and pressure that i could tell that queequeg be hug i .
my sensation be strange . let i try to explain they . when i be a child , i well remember a somewhat similar circumstance that befell i ; whether it be a reality or a dream , i never could entirely settle . the circumstance be this . i have be cut up some caper or other -- i think it be try to crawl up the chimney , as i have see a little sweep do a few day previous ; and my stepmother who , somehow or other , be all the time whip i , or send i to bed supperless,--my mother drag i by the leg out of the chimney and pack i off to bed , though it be only two o'clock in the afternoon of the 21st june , the long day in the year in our hemisphere . i feel dreadfully . but there be no help for it , so up stair i go to my little room in the third floor , undress myself as slowly as possible so as to kill time , and with a bitter sigh get between the sheet .
i lay there dismally calculate that sixteen entire hour must elapse before i could hope for a resurrection . sixteen hour in bed ! the small of my back ache to think of it . and it be so light too ; the sun shin in at the window , and a great rattling of coach in the street , and the sound of gay voice all over the house . i feel bad and bad -- at last i get up , dress , and softly go down in my stockinged foot , seek out my stepmother , and suddenly throw myself at her foot , beseech she as a particular favour to give i a good slippering for my misbehaviour ; anything indeed but condemn i to lie abe such an unendurable length of time . but she be the good and most conscientious of stepmother , and back i have to go to my room . for several hour i lay there broad awake , feel a great deal bad than i have ever do since , even from the great subsequent misfortune . at last i must have fall into a troubled nightmare of a doze ; and slowly wake from it -- half steep in dream -- i open my eye , and the before sun - light room be now wrap in outer darkness . instantly i feel a shock run through all my frame ; nothing be to be see , and nothing be to be hear ; but a supernatural hand seem place in mine . my arm hang over the counterpane , and the nameless , unimaginable , silent form or phantom , to which the hand belong , seem closely seat by my bed - side . for what seem age pile on age , i lay there , freeze with the most awful fear , not dare to drag away my hand ; yet ever think that if i could but stir it one single inch , the horrid spell would be break . i know not how this consciousness at last glide away from i ; but wake in the morning , i shudderingly remember it all , and for day and week and month afterwards i lose myself in confound attempt to explain the mystery . nay , to this very hour , i often puzzle myself with it .
now , take away the awful fear , and my sensation at feel the supernatural hand in mine be very similar , in their strangeness , to those which i experience on wake up and see queequeg 's pagan arm throw round i . but at length all the past night 's event soberly recur , one by one , in fix reality , and then i lay only alive to the comical predicament . for though i try to move his arm -- unlock his bridegroom clasp -- yet , sleep as he be , he still hug i tightly , as though naught but death should part we twain . i now strove to rouse him--"queequeg!"--but his only answer be a snore . i then roll over , my neck feeling as if it be in a horse - collar ; and suddenly feel a slight scratch . throw aside the counterpane , there lie the tomahawk sleep by the savage 's side , as if it be a hatchet - face baby . a pretty pickle , truly , think i ; abe here in a strange house in the broad day , with a cannibal and a tomahawk ! " queequeg!--in the name of goodness , queequeg , wake ! " at length , by dint of much wriggling , and loud and incessant expostulation upon the unbecomingness of his hug a fellow male in that matrimonial sort of style , i succeed in extract a grunt ; and presently , he draw back his arm , shake himself all over like a newfoundland dog just from the water , and sit up in bed , stiff as a pike - staff , look at i , and rub his eye as if he do not altogether remember how i come to be there , though a dim consciousness of know something about i seem slowly dawn over he . meanwhile , i lay quietly eye he , have no serious misgiving now , and bend upon narrowly observe so curious a creature . when , at last , his mind seem make up touch the character of his bedfellow , and he became , as it be , reconcile to the fact ; he jump out upon the floor , and by certain sign and sound give i to understand that , if it please i , he would dress first and then leave i to dress afterwards , leave the whole apartment to myself . think i , queequeg , under the circumstance , this be a very civilized overture ; but , the truth be , these savage have an innate sense of delicacy , say what you will ; it be marvellous how essentially polite they be . i pay this particular compliment to queequeg , because he treat i with so much civility and consideration , while i be guilty of great rudeness ; star at he from the bed , and watch all his toilette motion ; for the time my curiosity get the well of my breeding . nevertheless , a man like queequeg you do not see every day , he and his way be well worth unusual regarding .
he commence dress at top by don his beaver hat , a very tall one , by the by , and then -- still minus his trowser -- he hunt up his boot . what under the heaven he do it for , i can not tell , but his next movement be to crush himself -- boot in hand , and hat on -- under the bed ; when , from sundry violent gasping and straining , i infer he be hard at work boot himself ; though by no law of propriety that i ever hear of , be any man require to be private when put on his boot . but queequeg , do you see , be a creature in the transition stage -- neither caterpillar nor butterfly . he be just enough civilized to show off his outlandishness in the strange possible manner . his education be not yet complete . he be an undergraduate . if he have not be a small degree civilized , he very probably would not have trouble himself with boot at all ; but then , if he have not be still a savage , he never would have dream of get under the bed to put they on . at last , he emerge with his hat very much dent and crush down over his eye , and begin creak and limp about the room , as if , not be much accustomed to boot , his pair of damp , wrinkle cowhide one -- probably not make to order either -- rather pinch and torment he at the first go off of a bitter cold morning .
see , now , that there be no curtain to the window , and that the street be very narrow , the house opposite command a plain view into the room , and observe more and more the indecorous figure that queequeg make , stave about with little else but his hat and boot on ; i beg he as well as i could , to accelerate his toilet somewhat , and particularly to get into his pantaloon as soon as possible . he comply , and then proceed to wash himself . at that time in the morning any christian would have wash his face ; but queequeg , to my amazement , content himself with restrict his ablution to his chest , arm , and hand . he then don his waistcoat , and take up a piece of hard soap on the wash - stand centre table , dip it into water and commence lather his face . i be watch to see where he keep his razor , when lo and behold , he take the harpoon from the bed corner , slip out the long wooden stock , unsheathe the head , whet it a little on his boot , and stride up to the bit of mirror against the wall , begin a vigorous scraping , or rather harpooning of his cheek . think i , queequeg , this be use rogers 's good cutlery with a vengeance . afterwards i wonder the less at this operation when i come to know of what fine steel the head of a harpoon be make , and how exceedingly sharp the long straight edge be always keep .
the rest of his toilet be soon achieve , and he proudly march out of the room , wrap up in his great pilot monkey jacket , and sport his harpoon like a marshal 's baton .
chapter 5
breakfast .
i quickly follow suit , and descend into the bar - room accost the grinning landlord very pleasantly . i cherish no malice towards he , though he have be skylark with i not a little in the matter of my bedfellow .
however , a good laugh be a mighty good thing , and rather too scarce a good thing ; the more be the pity . so , if any one man , in his own proper person , afford stuff for a good joke to anybody , let he not be backward , but let he cheerfully allow himself to spend and be spend in that way . and the man that have anything bountifully laughable about he , be sure there be more in that man than you perhaps think for .
the bar - room be now full of the boarder who have be drop in the night previous , and whom i have not as yet have a good look at . they be nearly all whaleman ; chief mate , and second mate , and third mate , and sea carpenter , and sea cooper , and sea blacksmith , and harpooneer , and ship keeper ; a brown and brawny company , with bosky beard ; an unshorn , shaggy set , all wear monkey jacket for morning gown .
you could pretty plainly tell how long each one have be ashore . this young fellow 's healthy cheek be like a sun - toast pear in hue , and would seem to smell almost as musky ; he can not have be three day land from his indian voyage . that man next he look a few shade light ; you might say a touch of satin wood be in he . in the complexion of a third still linger a tropic tawn , but slightly bleached withal ; he doubtless have tarry whole week ashore . but who could show a cheek like queequeg ? which , bar with various tint , seem like the andes ' western slope , to show forth in one array , contrast climate , zone by zone .
" grub , ho ! " now cry the landlord , fling open a door , and in we go to breakfast .
they say that man who have see the world , thereby become quite at ease in manner , quite self - possess in company . not always , though : ledyard , the great new england traveller , and mungo park , the scotch one ; of all man , they possess the least assurance in the parlor . but perhaps the mere crossing of siberia in a sledge draw by dog as ledyard do , or the take a long solitary walk on an empty stomach , in the negro heart of africa , which be the sum of poor mungo 's performance -- this kind of travel , i say , may not be the very good mode of attain a high social polish . still , for the most part , that sort of thing be to be have anywhere .
these reflection just here be occasion by the circumstance that after we be all seat at the table , and i be prepare to hear some good story about whaling ; to my no small surprise , nearly every man maintain a profound silence . and not only that , but they look embarrassed . yes , here be a set of sea - dog , many of whom without the slight bashfulness have board great whale on the high sea -- entire stranger to they -- and duel they dead without wink ; and yet , here they sit at a social breakfast table -- all of the same calling , all of kindre taste -- look round as sheepishly at each other as though they have never be out of sight of some sheepfold among the green mountains . a curious sight ; these bashful bear , these timid warrior whaleman !
but as for queequeg -- why , queequeg sit there among they -- at the head of the table , too , it so chance ; as cool as an icicle . to be sure i can not say much for his breeding . his great admirer could not have cordially justify his bring his harpoon into breakfast with he , and use it there without ceremony ; reach over the table with it , to the imminent jeopardy of many head , and grapple the beefsteak towards he . but that be certainly very coolly do by he , and every one know that in most people 's estimation , to do anything coolly be to do it genteelly .
we will not speak of all queequeg 's peculiarity here ; how he eschew coffee and hot roll , and apply his undivided attention to beefsteak , do rare . enough , that when breakfast be over he withdraw like the rest into the public room , light his tomahawk - pipe , and be sit there quietly digest and smoke with his inseparable hat on , when i sally out for a stroll .
chapter 6
the street .
if i have be astonish at first catch a glimpse of so outlandish an individual as queequeg circulate among the polite society of a civilized town , that astonishment soon depart upon take my first daylight stroll through the street of new bedford .
in thoroughfare nigh the dock , any considerable seaport will frequently offer to view the queer look nondescript from foreign part . even in broadway and chestnut street , mediterranean mariner will sometimes jostle the affrighted lady . regent street be not unknown to lascars and malays ; and at bombay , in the apollo green , live yankees have often scar the native . but new bedford beat all water street and wapping . in these last - mention haunt you see only sailor ; but in new bedford , actual cannibal stand chat at street corner ; savage outright ; many of whom yet carry on their bone unholy flesh . it make a stranger stare .
but , besides the feegeeans , tongatobooarrs , erromanggoans , pannangians , and brighggians , and , besides the wild specimen of the whaling - craft which unheede reel about the street , you will see other sight still more curious , certainly more comical . there weekly arrive in this town score of green vermonters and new hampshire man , all athirst for gain and glory in the fishery . they be mostly young , of stalwart frame ; fellow who have fell forest , and now seek to drop the axe and snatch the whale - lance . many be as green as the green mountains whence they come . in some thing you would think they but a few hour old . look there ! that chap strut round the corner . he wear a beaver hat and swallow - tail coat , girdle with a sailor - belt and sheath - knife . here come another with a sou'-wester and a bombazine cloak .
no town - breed dandy will compare with a country - breed one -- i mean a downright bumpkin dandy -- a fellow that , in the dog - day , will mow his two acre in buckskin glove for fear of tan his hand . now when a country dandy like this take it into his head to make a distinguished reputation , and join the great whale - fishery , you should see the comical thing he do upon reach the seaport . in bespeak his sea - outfit , he order bell - button to his waistcoat ; strap to his canvas trowser . ah , poor hay - seed ! how bitterly will burst those strap in the first howl gale , when thou art drive , strap , button , and all , down the throat of the temp .
but think not that this famous town have only harpooneer , cannibal , and bumpkin to show her visitor . not at all . still new bedford be a queer place . have it not be for us whaleman , that tract of land would this day perhaps have be in as howl condition as the coast of labrador . as it be , part of her back country be enough to frighten one , they look so bony . the town itself be perhaps the dear place to live in , in all new england . it be a land of oil , true enough : but not like canaan ; a land , also , of corn and wine . the street do not run with milk ; nor in the spring - time do they pave they with fresh egg . yet , in spite of this , nowhere in all america will you find more patrician - like house ; park and garden more opulent , than in new bedford . whence come they ? how plant upon this once scraggy scoria of a country ?
go and gaze upon the iron emblematical harpoon round yonder lofty mansion , and your question will be answer . yes ; all these brave house and flowery garden come from the atlantic , pacific , and indian ocean . one and all , they be harpoon and drag up hither from the bottom of the sea . can herr alexander perform a feat like that ?
in new bedford , father , they say , give whale for dower to their daughter , and portion off their niece with a few porpoise a - piece . you must go to new bedford to see a brilliant wedding ; for , they say , they have reservoir of oil in every house , and every night recklessly burn their length in spermaceti candle .
in summer time , the town be sweet to see ; full of fine maple -- long avenue of green and gold . and in august , high in air , the beautiful and bountiful horse - chestnut , candelabra - wise , proffer the passer - by their taper upright cone of congregate blossom . so omnipotent be art ; which in many a district of new bedford have superinduce bright terrace of flower upon the barren refuse rock throw aside at creation 's final day .
and the woman of new bedford , they bloom like their own red rose . but rose only bloom in summer ; whereas the fine carnation of their cheek be perennial as sunlight in the seventh heaven . elsewhere match that bloom of theirs , ye can not , save in salem , where they tell i the young girl breathe such musk , their sailor sweetheart smell they mile off shore , as though they be draw nigh the odorous moluccas instead of the puritanic sand .
chapter 7
the chapel .
in this same new bedford there stand a whaleman 's chapel , and few be the moody fisherman , shortly bind for the indian ocean or pacific , who fail to make a sunday visit to the spot . i be sure that i do not .
return from my first morning stroll , i again sally out upon this special errand . the sky have change from clear , sunny cold , to drive sleet and mist . wrap myself in my shaggy jacket of the cloth call bearskin , i fight my way against the stubborn storm . enter , i find a small scatter congregation of sailor , and sailor ' wife and widow . a muffled silence reign , only break at time by the shriek of the storm . each silent worshipper seemed purposely sit apart from the other , as if each silent grief be insular and incommunicable . the chaplain have not yet arrive ; and there these silent island of man and woman sat steadfastly eye several marble tablet , with black border , masone into the wall on either side the pulpit . three of they run something like the following , but i do not pretend to quote:--
sacred to the memory of john talbot , who , at the age of eighteen , be lose overboard , near the isle of desolation , off patagonia , november 1st , 1836 . this tablet be erect to his memory by his sister . _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
sacred to the memory of robert long , willis ellery , nathan coleman , walter canny , seth macy , and samuel gleig , form one of the boat ' crew of the ship eliza who be tow out of sight by a whale , on the off - shore ground in the pacific , december 31st , 1839 . this marble be here place by their survive shipmate . _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
sacred to the memory of the late captain ezekiel hardy , who in the bow of his boat be kill by a sperm whale on the coast of japan , august 3d , 1833 . this tablet be erect to his memory by his widow .
shake off the sleet from my ice - glaze hat and jacket , i seat myself near the door , and turn sideways be surprised to see queequeg near i . affect by the solemnity of the scene , there be a wonder gaze of incredulous curiosity in his countenance . this savage be the only person present who seem to notice my entrance ; because he be the only one who could not read , and , therefore , be not read those frigid inscription on the wall . whether any of the relative of the seaman whose name appear there be now among the congregation , i know not ; but so many be the unrecorded accident in the fishery , and so plainly do several woman present wear the countenance if not the trapping of some unceasing grief , that i feel sure that here before i be assemble those , in whose unhealing heart the sight of those bleak tablet sympathetically cause the old wound to bleed afresh .
oh ! ye whose dead lie bury beneath the green grass ; who stand among flower can say -- here , here lie my beloved ; ye know not the desolation that brood in bosom like these . what bitter blank in those black - border marble which cover no ash ! what despair in those immovable inscription ! what deadly voids and unbidden infidelity in the line that seem to gnaw upon all faith , and refuse resurrection to the being who have placelessly perish without a grave . as well might those tablet stand in the cave of elephanta as here .
in what census of living creature , the dead of mankind be include ; why it be that a universal proverb say of they , that they tell no tale , though contain more secret than the goodwin sands ; how it be that to his name who yesterday depart for the other world , we prefix so significant and infidel a word , and yet do not thus entitle he , if he but embark for the remotest indies of this live earth ; why the life insurance companies pay death - forfeiture upon immortal ; in what eternal , unstirring paralysis , and deadly , hopeless trance , yet lie antique adam who die sixty round century ago ; how it be that we still refuse to be comfort for those who we nevertheless maintain be dwell in unspeakable bliss ; why all the living so strive to hush all the dead ; wherefore but the rumor of a knocking in a tomb will terrify a whole city . all these thing be not without their meaning .
but faith , like a jackal , feed among the tomb , and even from these dead doubt she gather her most vital hope .
it need scarcely to be tell , with what feeling , on the eve of a nantucket voyage , i regard those marble tablet , and by the murky light of that darken , doleful day read the fate of the whaleman who have go before i . yes , ishmael , the same fate may be thine . but somehow i grow merry again . delightful inducement to embark , fine chance for promotion , it seem -- aye , a stove boat will make i an immortal by brevet . yes , there be death in this business of whaling -- a speechlessly quick chaotic bundling of a man into eternity . but what then ? methink we have hugely mistake this matter of life and death . methink that what they call my shadow here on earth be my true substance . methink that in look at thing spiritual , we be too much like oyster observe the sun through the water , and think that thick water the thin of air . methink my body be but the lee of my well being . in fact take my body who will , take it i say , it be not i . and therefore three cheer for nantucket ; and come a stove boat and stove body when they will , for stave my soul , jove himself can not .
chapter 8
the pulpit .
i have not be seat very long ere a man of a certain venerable robustness enter ; immediately as the storm - pelt door fly back upon admit he , a quick regardful eyeing of he by all the congregation , sufficiently attest that this fine old man be the chaplain . yes , it be the famous father mapple , so call by the whaleman , among whom he be a very great favourite . he have be a sailor and a harpooneer in his youth , but for many year past have dedicate his life to the ministry . at the time i now write of , father mapple be in the hardy winter of a healthy old age ; that sort of old age which seem merge into a second flower youth , for among all the fissure of his wrinkle , there shine certain mild gleam of a newly develop bloom -- the spring verdure peep forth even beneath february 's snow . no one having previously hear his history , could for the first time behold father mapple without the utmost interest , because there be certain engraft clerical peculiarity about he , imputable to that adventurous maritime life he have lead . when he enter i observe that he carry no umbrella , and certainly have not come in his carriage , for his tarpaulin hat run down with melting sleet , and his great pilot cloth jacket seem almost to drag he to the floor with the weight of the water it have absorb . however , hat and coat and overshoe be one by one remove , and hang up in a little space in an adjacent corner ; when , array in a decent suit , he quietly approach the pulpit .
like most old fashioned pulpit , it be a very lofty one , and since a regular stair to such a height would , by its long angle with the floor , seriously contract the already small area of the chapel , the architect , it seem , have act upon the hint of father mapple , and finish the pulpit without a stair , substitute a perpendicular side ladder , like those use in mount a ship from a boat at sea . the wife of a whale captain have provide the chapel with a handsome pair of red worst man - rope for this ladder , which , be itself nicely head , and stain with a mahogany colour , the whole contrivance , consider what manner of chapel it be , seem by no mean in bad taste . halt for an instant at the foot of the ladder , and with both hand grasp the ornamental knob of the man - rope , father mapple cast a look upwards , and then with a truly sailor - like but still reverential dexterity , hand over hand , mount the step as if ascend the main - top of his vessel .
the perpendicular part of this side ladder , as be usually the case with swing one , be of cloth - cover rope , only the round be of wood , so that at every step there be a joint . at my first glimpse of the pulpit , it have not escape i that however convenient for a ship , these joint in the present instance seem unnecessary . for i be not prepared to see father mapple after gain the height , slowly turn round , and stoop over the pulpit , deliberately drag up the ladder step by step , till the whole be deposit within , leave he impregnable in his little quebec .
i ponder some time without fully comprehend the reason for this . father mapple enjoy such a wide reputation for sincerity and sanctity , that i could not suspect he of court notoriety by any mere trick of the stage . no , think i , there must be some sober reason for this thing ; furthermore , it must symbolize something unseen . can it be , then , that by that act of physical isolation , he signify his spiritual withdrawal for the time , from all outward worldly tie and connexion ? yes , for replenish with the meat and wine of the word , to the faithful man of god , this pulpit , i see , be a self - contain stronghold -- a lofty ehrenbreitstein , with a perennial well of water within the wall .
but the side ladder be not the only strange feature of the place , borrow from the chaplain 's former sea - faring . between the marble cenotaph on either hand of the pulpit , the wall which form its back be adorn with a large painting represent a gallant ship beat against a terrible storm off a lee coast of black rock and snowy breaker . but high above the fly scud and dark - roll cloud , there float a little isle of sunlight , from which beam forth an angel 's face ; and this bright face shed a distinct spot of radiance upon the ship 's toss deck , something like that silver plate now insert into the victory 's plank where nelson fall . " ah , noble ship , " the angel seem to say , " beat on , beat on , thou noble ship , and bear a hardy helm ; for lo ! the sun be break through ; the cloud be roll off -- serene azure be at hand . "
nor be the pulpit itself without a trace of the same sea - taste that have achieve the ladder and the picture . its panelled front be in the likeness of a ship 's bluff bow , and the holy bible rest on a project piece of scroll work , fashion after a ship 's fiddle - head beak .
what could be more full of meaning?--for the pulpit be ever this earth 's foremost part ; all the rest come in its rear ; the pulpit lead the world . from thence it be the storm of god 's quick wrath be first descry , and the bow must bear the early brunt . from thence it be the god of breeze fair or foul be first invoke for favourable wind . yes , the world 's a ship on its passage out , and not a voyage complete ; and the pulpit be its prow .
chapter 9
the sermon .
father mapple rise , and in a mild voice of unassuming authority order the scattered people to condense . " starboard gangway , there ! side away to larboard -- larboard gangway to starboard ! midship ! midship ! "
there be a low rumbling of heavy sea - boot among the bench , and a still slighter shuffling of woman 's shoe , and all be quiet again , and every eye on the preacher .
he pause a little ; then kneel in the pulpit 's bow , fold his large brown hand across his chest , uplift his closed eye , and offer a prayer so deeply devout that he seem kneel and pray at the bottom of the sea .
this end , in prolong solemn tone , like the continual tolling of a bell in a ship that be founder at sea in a fog -- in such tone he commence read the follow hymn ; but change his manner towards the concluding stanzas , burst forth with a pealing exultation and joy--
" the rib and terror in the whale , arch over i a dismal gloom , while all god 's sun - light wave roll by , and lift i deepen down to doom .
" i see the open maw of hell , with endless pain and sorrow there ; which none but they that feel can tell-- oh , i be plunge to despair .
" in black distress , i call my god , when i could scarce believe he mine , he bow his ear to my complaints-- no more the whale do i confine .
" with speed he fly to my relief , as on a radiant dolphin bear ; awful , yet bright , as lightning shine the face of my deliverer god .
" my song for ever shall record that terrible , that joyful hour ; i give the glory to my god , his all the mercy and the power .
nearly all join in sing this hymn , which swell high above the howling of the storm . a brief pause ensue ; the preacher slowly turn over the leaf of the bible , and at last , fold his hand down upon the proper page , say : " beloved shipmate , clinch the last verse of the first chapter of jonah--'and god have prepare a great fish to swallow up jonah . ' "
" shipmate , this book , contain only four chapter -- four yarn -- be one of the small strand in the mighty cable of the scripture . yet what depth of the soul do jonah 's deep sealine sound ! what a pregnant lesson to we be this prophet ! what a noble thing be that canticle in the fish 's belly ! how billow - like and boisterously grand ! we feel the flood surge over we ; we sound with he to the kelpy bottom of the water ; sea - weed and all the slime of the sea be about we ! but what be this lesson that the book of jonah teach ? shipmate , it be a two - strand lesson ; a lesson to we all as sinful man , and a lesson to i as a pilot of the live god . as sinful man , it be a lesson to we all , because it be a story of the sin , hard - heartedness , suddenly awaken fear , the swift punishment , repentance , prayer , and finally the deliverance and joy of jonah . as with all sinner among man , the sin of this son of amittai be in his wilful disobedience of the command of god -- never mind now what that command be , or how convey -- which he find a hard command . but all the thing that god would have we do are hard for we to do -- remember that -- and hence , he oftener command we than endeavor to persuade . and if we obey god , we must disobey ourselves ; and it be in this disobeying ourselves , wherein the hardness of obey god consist .
" with this sin of disobedience in he , jonah still far flout at god , by seek to flee from he . he think that a ship make by man will carry he into country where god do not reign , but only the captain of this earth . he skulk about the wharf of joppa , and seek a ship that be bind for tarshish . there lurk , perhaps , a hitherto unheeded meaning here . by all account tarshish could have be no other city than the modern cadiz . that be the opinion of learn man . and where be cadiz , shipmate ? cadiz be in spain ; as far by water , from joppa , as jonah could possibly have sail in those ancient day , when the atlantic be an almost unknown sea . because joppa , the modern jaffa , shipmate , be on the most easterly coast of the mediterranean , the syrian ; and tarshish or cadiz more than two thousand mile to the westward from that , just outside the straits of gibraltar . see ye not then , shipmate , that jonah seek to flee world - wide from god ? miserable man ! oh ! most contemptible and worthy of all scorn ; with slouched hat and guilty eye , skulk from his god ; prowl among the shipping like a vile burglar hastening to cross the sea . so disorder , self - condemn be his look , that have there be policeman in those day , jonah , on the mere suspicion of something wrong , have be arrest ere he touch a deck . how plainly he be a fugitive ! no baggage , not a hat - box , valise , or carpet - bag,--no friend accompany he to the wharf with their adieux . at last , after much dodging search , he find the tarshish ship receive the last item of her cargo ; and as he step on board to see its captain in the cabin , all the sailor for the moment desist from hoist in the good , to mark the stranger 's evil eye . jonah see this ; but in vain he try to look all ease and confidence ; in vain essay his wretched smile . strong intuition of the man assure the mariner he can be no innocent . in their gamesome but still serious way , one whisper to the other--"jack , he be rob a widow ; " or , " joe , do you mark he ; he be a bigamist ; " or , " harry lad , i guess he be the adulterer that break jail in old gomorrah , or belike , one of the miss murderer from sodom . " another run to read the bill that be stick against the spile upon the wharf to which the ship be moor , offer five hundred gold coin for the apprehension of a parricide , and contain a description of his person . he read , and look from jonah to the bill ; while all his sympathetic shipmate now crowd round jonah , prepare to lay their hand upon he . fright jonah tremble , and summon all his boldness to his face , only look so much the more a coward . he will not confess himself suspect ; but that itself be strong suspicion . so he make the good of it ; and when the sailor find he not to be the man that be advertise , they let he pass , and he descend into the cabin .
" ' who be there ? ' cry the captain at his busy desk , hurriedly make out his paper for the customs--'who 's there ? ' oh ! how that harmless question mangle jonah ! for the instant he almost turn to flee again . but he rally . ' i seek a passage in this ship to tarshish ; how soon sail ye , sir ? ' thus far the busy captain have not look up to jonah , though the man now stand before he ; but no soon do he hear that hollow voice , than he dart a scrutinize glance . ' we sail with the next come tide , ' at last he slowly answer , still intently eye he . ' no soon , sir?'--'soon enough for any honest man that go a passenger . ' ha ! jonah , that be another stab . but he swiftly call away the captain from that scent . ' i will sail with ye,'--he says,--'the passage money how much be that?--i'll pay now . ' for it be particularly write , shipmate , as if it be a thing not to be overlook in this history , ' that he pay the fare thereof ' ere the craft do sail . and take with the context , this be full of meaning .
" now jonah 's captain , shipmate , be one whose discernment detect crime in any , but whose cupidity expose it only in the penniless . in this world , shipmate , sin that pay its way can travel freely , and without a passport ; whereas virtue , if a pauper , be stop at all frontier . so jonah 's captain prepare to test the length of jonah 's purse , ere he judge he openly . he charge he thrice the usual sum ; and it be assent to . then the captain know that jonah be a fugitive ; but at the same time resolve to help a flight that pave its rear with gold . yet when jonah fairly take out his purse , prudent suspicion still molest the captain . he ring every coin to find a counterfeit . not a forger , any way , he mutter ; and jonah be put down for his passage . ' point out my state - room , sir , ' say jonah now , ' i be travel - weary ; i need sleep . ' ' thou lookest like it , ' say the captain , ' there be thy room . ' jonah enter , and would lock the door , but the lock contain no key . hear he foolishly fumble there , the captain laugh lowly to himself , and mutter something about the door of convict ' cell be never allow to be lock within . all dressed and dusty as he be , jonah throw himself into his berth , and find the little state - room ceiling almost rest on his forehead . the air be close , and jonah gasp . then , in that contract hole , sunk , too , beneath the ship 's water - line , jonah feel the herald presentiment of that stifle hour , when the whale shall hold he in the small of his bowel ' ward .
" screw at its axis against the side , a swing lamp slightly oscillate in jonah 's room ; and the ship , heel over towards the wharf with the weight of the last bale receive , the lamp , flame and all , though in slight motion , still maintain a permanent obliquity with reference to the room ; though , in truth , infallibly straight itself , it but make obvious the false , lie level among which it hang . the lamp alarm and frighten jonah ; as lie in his berth his torment eye roll round the place , and this thus far successful fugitive find no refuge for his restless glance . but that contradiction in the lamp more and more appal he . the floor , the ceiling , and the side , be all awry . ' oh ! so my conscience hang in i ! ' he groan , ' straight upwards , so it burn ; but the chamber of my soul be all in crookedness ! '
" like one who after a night of drunken revelry hie to his bed , still reel , but with conscience yet prick he , as the plunging of the roman race - horse but so much the more strike his steel tag into he ; as one who in that miserable plight still turn and turn in giddy anguish , pray god for annihilation until the fit be pass ; and at last amid the whirl of woe he feel , a deep stupor steal over he , as over the man who bleed to death , for conscience be the wound , and there be naught to staunch it ; so , after sore wrestling in his berth , jonah 's prodigy of ponderous misery drag he drown down to sleep .
" and now the time of tide have come ; the ship cast off her cable ; and from the deserted wharf the uncheered ship for tarshish , all careen , glide to sea . that ship , my friend , be the first of record smuggler ! the contraband be jonah . but the sea rebel ; he will not bear the wicked burden . a dreadful storm come on , the ship be like to break . but now when the boatswain call all hand to lighten she ; when box , bale , and jar be clatter overboard ; when the wind be shriek , and the man be yell , and every plank thunder with trample foot right over jonah 's head ; in all this rag tumult , jonah sleep his hideous sleep . he see no black sky and rag sea , feel not the reel timber , and little hear he or heed he the far rush of the mighty whale , which even now with open mouth be cleave the sea after he . aye , shipmate , jonah be go down into the side of the ship -- a berth in the cabin as i have take it , and be fast asleep . but the frightened master come to he , and shriek in his dead ear , ' what mean thou , o , sleeper ! arise ! ' startle from his lethargy by that direful cry , jonah stagger to his foot , and stumble to the deck , grasp a shroud , to look out upon the sea . but at that moment he be spring upon by a panther billow leap over the bulwark . wave after wave thus leap into the ship , and find no speedy vent run roar fore and aft , till the mariner come nigh to drown while yet afloat . and ever , as the white moon show her affrighted face from the steep gully in the blackness overhead , aghast jonah see the rear bowsprit pointing high upward , but soon beat downward again towards the torment deep .
" terror upon terror run shout through his soul . in all his cringe attitude , the god - fugitive be now too plainly know . the sailor mark he ; more and more certain grow their suspicion of he , and at last , fully to test the truth , by refer the whole matter to high heaven , they fall to cast lot , to see for whose cause this great tempest be upon they . the lot be jonah 's ; that discover , then how furiously they mob he with their question . ' what be thine occupation ? whence com thou ? thy country ? what people ? but mark now , my shipmate , the behavior of poor jonah . the eager mariner but ask he who he be , and where from ; whereas , they not only receive an answer to those question , but likewise another answer to a question not put by they , but the unsolicited answer be force from jonah by the hard hand of god that be upon he .
" ' i be a hebrew , ' he cry -- and then--'i fear the lord the god of heaven who hath make the sea and the dry land ! ' fear he , o jonah ? aye , well might thou fear the lord god then ! straightway , he now go on to make a full confession ; whereupon the mariner become more and more appalled , but still be pitiful . for when jonah , not yet supplicate god for mercy , since he but too well know the darkness of his deserts,--when wretche jonah cry out to they to take he and cast he forth into the sea , for he know that for his sake this great tempest be upon they ; they mercifully turn from he , and seek by other mean to save the ship . but all in vain ; the indignant gale howl louder ; then , with one hand raise invokingly to god , with the other they not unreluctantly lie hold of jonah .
" and now behold jonah take up as an anchor and drop into the sea ; when instantly an oily calmness float out from the east , and the sea be still , as jonah carry down the gale with he , leave smooth water behind . he go down in the whirling heart of such a masterless commotion that he scarce heed the moment when he drop seethe into the yawning jaw await he ; and the whale shoot - to all his ivory tooth , like so many white bolt , upon his prison . then jonah pray unto the lord out of the fish 's belly . but observe his prayer , and learn a weighty lesson . for sinful as he be , jonah do not weep and wail for direct deliverance . he feel that his dreadful punishment be just . he leave all his deliverance to god , content himself with this , that spite of all his pain and pang , he will still look towards his holy temple . and here , shipmate , be true and faithful repentance ; not clamorous for pardon , but grateful for punishment . and how pleasing to god be this conduct in jonah , be show in the eventual deliverance of he from the sea and the whale . shipmate , i do not place jonah before you to be copy for his sin but i do place he before you as a model for repentance . sin not ; but if you do , take heed to repent of it like jonah . "
while he be speak these word , the howling of the shrieking , slant storm without seem to add new power to the preacher , who , when describe jonah 's sea - storm , seemed toss by a storm himself . his deep chest heave as with a ground - swell ; his tossed arm seem the war element at work ; and the thunder that roll away from off his swarthy brow , and the light leap from his eye , make all his simple hearer look on he with a quick fear that be strange to they .
there now come a lull in his look , as he silently turn over the leaf of the book once more ; and , at last , stand motionless , with closed eye , for the moment , seem commune with god and himself .
but again he lean over towards the people , and bow his head lowly , with an aspect of the deep yet manly humility , he spake these word :
" shipmate , god have lay but one hand upon you ; both his hand press upon i . i have read ye by what murky light may be mine the lesson that jonah teach to all sinner ; and therefore to ye , and still more to i , for i be a great sinner than ye . and now how gladly would i come down from this mast - head and sit on the hatch there where you sit , and listen as you listen , while some one of you read i that other and more awful lesson which jonah teach to i , as a pilot of the live god . how be an anointed pilot - prophet , or speaker of true thing , and bid by the lord to sound those unwelcome truth in the ear of a wicked nineveh , jonah , appal at the hostility he should raise , flee from his mission , and seek to escape his duty and his god by take ship at joppa . but god be everywhere ; tarshish he never reach . as we have see , god come upon he in the whale , and swallow he down to live gulfs of doom , and with swift slanting tear he along ' into the midst of the sea , ' where the eddying depth suck he ten thousand fathom down , and ' the weed be wrap about his head , ' and all the watery world of woe bowl over he . yet even then beyond the reach of any plummet--'out of the belly of hell'--when the whale ground upon the ocean 's utmost bone , even then , god hear the engulphed , repent prophet when he cry . then god spake unto the fish ; and from the shudder cold and blackness of the sea , the whale come breeche up towards the warm and pleasant sun , and all the delight of air and earth ; and ' vomit out jonah upon the dry land ; ' when the word of the lord come a second time ; and jonah , bruise and beat -- his ear , like two sea - shell , still multitudinously murmur of the ocean -- jonah do the almighty 's bidding . and what be that , shipmate ? to preach the truth to the face of falsehood ! that be it !
" this , shipmate , this be that other lesson ; and woe to that pilot of the live god who slight it . woe to he whom this world charm from gospel duty ! woe to he who seek to pour oil upon the water when god have brew they into a gale ! woe to he who seek to please rather than to appal ! woe to he whose good name be more to he than goodness ! woe to he who , in this world , court not dishonour ! woe to he who would not be true , even though to be false be salvation ! yea , woe to he who , as the great pilot paul have it , while preach to other be himself a castaway ! "
he drop and fall away from himself for a moment ; then lift his face to they again , show a deep joy in his eye , as he cry out with a heavenly enthusiasm,--"but oh ! shipmate ! on the starboard hand of every woe , there be a sure delight ; and higher the top of that delight , than the bottom of the woe be deep . be not the main - truck high than the kelson be low ? delight be to he -- a far , far upward , and inward delight -- who against the proud god and commodore of this earth , ever stand forth his own inexorable self . delight be to he whose strong arm yet support he , when the ship of this base treacherous world have go down beneath he . delight be to he , who give no quarter in the truth , and kill , burn , and destroy all sin though he pluck it out from under the robe of senators and judges . delight,--top - gallant delight be to he , who acknowledge no law or lord , but the lord his god , and be only a patriot to heaven . delight be to he , whom all the wave of the billow of the sea of the boisterous mob can never shake from this sure keel of the ages . and eternal delight and deliciousness will be his , who come to lay he down , can say with his final breath -- o father!--chiefly know to i by thy rod -- mortal or immortal , here i die . i have strive to be thine , more than to be this world 's , or mine own . yet this be nothing : i leave eternity to thee ; for what be man that he should live out the lifetime of his god ? "
he say no more , but slowly wave a benediction , cover his face with his hand , and so remain kneeling , till all the people have depart , and he be leave alone in the place .
chapter 10
a bosom friend .
return to the spouter - inn from the chapel , i find queequeg there quite alone ; he having leave the chapel before the benediction some time . he be sit on a bench before the fire , with his foot on the stove hearth , and in one hand be hold close up to his face that little negro idol of his ; peer hard into its face , and with a jack - knife gently whittle away at its nose , meanwhile hum to himself in his heathenish way .
but be now interrupt , he put up the image ; and pretty soon , go to the table , take up a large book there , and place it on his lap begin count the page with deliberate regularity ; at every fiftieth page -- as i fancy -- stop a moment , look vacantly around he , and give utterance to a long - draw gurgle whistle of astonishment . he would then begin again at the next fifty ; seem to commence at number one each time , as though he could not count more than fifty , and it be only by such a large number of fifty be find together , that his astonishment at the multitude of page be excited .
with much interest i sit watch he . savage though he be , and hideously mar about the face -- at least to my taste -- his countenance yet have a something in it which be by no mean disagreeable . you can not hide the soul . through all his unearthly tattooing , i think i see the trace of a simple honest heart ; and in his large , deep eye , fiery black and bold , there seem token of a spirit that would dare a thousand devil . and besides all this , there be a certain lofty bear about the pagan , which even his uncouthness could not altogether maim . he look like a man who have never cringe and never have have a creditor . whether it be , too , that his head be shave , his forehead be draw out in free and bright relief , and look more expansive than it otherwise would , this i will not venture to decide ; but certain it be his head be phrenologically an excellent one . it may seem ridiculous , but it remind i of general washington 's head , as see in the popular bust of he . it have the same long regularly grade retreat slope from above the brow , which be likewise very project , like two long promontory thickly woode on top . queequeg be george washington cannibalistically develop .
whilst i be thus closely scan he , half - pretend meanwhile to be look out at the storm from the casement , he never heed my presence , never trouble himself with so much as a single glance ; but appear wholly occupy with count the page of the marvellous book . consider how sociably we have be sleep together the night previous , and especially consider the affectionate arm i have find throw over i upon wake in the morning , i think this indifference of his very strange . but savage be strange being ; at time you do not know exactly how to take they . at first they be overawe ; their calm self - collectedness of simplicity seem a socratic wisdom . i have notice also that queequeg never consort at all , or but very little , with the other seaman in the inn . he make no advance whatever ; appear to have no desire to enlarge the circle of his acquaintance . all this strike i as mighty singular ; yet , upon second thought , there be something almost sublime in it . here be a man some twenty thousand mile from home , by the way of cape horn , that be -- which be the only way he could get there -- throw among people as strange to he as though he be in the planet jupiter ; and yet he seem entirely at his ease ; preserve the utmost serenity ; content with his own companionship ; always equal to himself . surely this be a touch of fine philosophy ; though no doubt he have never hear there be such a thing as that . but , perhaps , to be true philosopher , we mortal should not be conscious of so live or so striving . so soon as i hear that such or such a man give himself out for a philosopher , i conclude that , like the dyspeptic old woman , he must have " break his digester . "
as i sit there in that now lonely room ; the fire burn low , in that mild stage when , after its first intensity have warm the air , it then only glow to be look at ; the evening shade and phantom gather round the casement , and peer in upon we silent , solitary twain ; the storm boom without in solemn swell ; i begin to be sensible of strange feeling . i feel a melting in i . no more my splintered heart and madden hand be turn against the wolfish world . this soothe savage have redeem it . there he sit , his very indifference speak a nature in which there lurk no civilized hypocrisy and bland deceit . wild he be ; a very sight of sight to see ; yet i begin to feel myself mysteriously draw towards he . and those same thing that would have repel most other , they be the very magnet that thus draw i . i will try a pagan friend , think i , since christian kindness have prove but hollow courtesy . i draw my bench near he , and make some friendly sign and hint , do my good to talk with he meanwhile . at first he little notice these advance ; but presently , upon my refer to his last night 's hospitality , he make out to ask i whether we be again to be bedfellow . i tell he yes ; whereat i think he look pleased , perhaps a little complimented .
we then turn over the book together , and i endeavor to explain to he the purpose of the printing , and the meaning of the few picture that be in it . thus i soon engage his interest ; and from that we go to jabber the good we could about the various outer sight to be see in this famous town . soon i propose a social smoke ; and , produce his pouch and tomahawk , he quietly offer i a puff . and then we sit exchange puff from that wild pipe of his , and keep it regularly pass between we .
if there yet lurk any ice of indifference towards i in the pagan 's breast , this pleasant , genial smoke we have , soon thaw it out , and leave we crony . he seem to take to i quite as naturally and unbiddenly as i to he ; and when our smoke be over , he press his forehead against mine , clasp i round the waist , and say that henceforth we be marry ; mean , in his country 's phrase , that we be bosom friend ; he would gladly die for i , if need should be . in a countryman , this sudden flame of friendship would have seem far too premature , a thing to be much distrust ; but in this simple savage those old rule would not apply .
after supper , and another social chat and smoke , we go to our room together . he make i a present of his embalmed head ; take out his enormous tobacco wallet , and grope under the tobacco , draw out some thirty dollar in silver ; then spread they on the table , and mechanically divide they into two equal portion , push one of they towards i , and say it be mine . i be go to remonstrate ; but he silence i by pour they into my trowser ' pocket . i let they stay . he then go about his evening prayer , take out his idol , and remove the paper fireboard . by certain sign and symptom , i think he seem anxious for i to join he ; but well know what be to follow , i deliberate a moment whether , in case he invite i , i would comply or otherwise .
i be a good christian ; bear and breed in the bosom of the infallible presbyterian church . how then could i unite with this wild idolator in worship his piece of wood ? but what be worship ? think i. do you suppose now , ishmael , that the magnanimous god of heaven and earth -- pagan and all include -- can possibly be jealous of an insignificant bit of black wood ? impossible ! but what be worship?--to do the will of god -- that be worship . and what be the will of god?--to do to my fellow man what i would have my fellow man to do to i -- that be the will of god . now , queequeg be my fellow man . and what do i wish that this queequeg would do to i ? why , unite with i in my particular presbyterian form of worship . consequently , i must then unite with he in his ; ergo , i must turn idolator . so i kindle the shaving ; help prop up the innocent little idol ; offer he burn biscuit with queequeg ; salame before he twice or thrice ; kiss his nose ; and that do , we undress and go to bed , at peace with our own conscience and all the world . but we do not go to sleep without some little chat .
how it be i know not ; but there be no place like a bed for confidential disclosure between friend . man and wife , they say , there open the very bottom of their soul to each other ; and some old couple often lie and chat over old time till nearly morning . thus , then , in our heart ' honeymoon , lie i and queequeg -- a cosy , love pair .
chapter 11
nightgown .
we have lain thus in bed , chat and nap at short interval , and queequeg now and then affectionately throw his brown tattooed leg over mine , and then draw they back ; so entirely sociable and free and easy be we ; when , at last , by reason of our confabulation , what little nappishness remain in we altogether depart , and we feel like get up again , though day - break be yet some way down the future .
yes , we become very wakeful ; so much so that our recumbent position begin to grow wearisome , and by little and little we find ourselves sit up ; the clothe well tuck around we , lean against the head - board with our four knee draw up close together , and our two nose bend over they , as if our kneepan be warm - pan . we feel very nice and snug , the more so since it be so chilly out of door ; indeed out of bed - clothe too , see that there be no fire in the room . the more so , i say , because truly to enjoy bodily warmth , some small part of you must be cold , for there be no quality in this world that be not what it be merely by contrast . nothing exist in itself . if you flatter yourself that you be all over comfortable , and have be so a long time , then you can not be say to be comfortable any more . but if , like queequeg and i in the bed , the tip of your nose or the crown of your head be slightly chill , why then , indeed , in the general consciousness you feel most delightfully and unmistakably warm . for this reason a sleep apartment should never be furnish with a fire , which be one of the luxurious discomfort of the rich . for the height of this sort of deliciousness be to have nothing but the blanket between you and your snugness and the cold of the outer air . then there you lie like the one warm spark in the heart of an arctic crystal .
we have be sit in this crouch manner for some time , when all at once i think i would open my eye ; for when between sheet , whether by day or by night , and whether asleep or awake , i have a way of always keep my eye shut , in order the more to concentrate the snugness of be in bed . because no man can ever feel his own identity aright except his eye be close ; as if darkness be indeed the proper element of our essence , though light be more congenial to our clayey part . upon open my eye then , and come out of my own pleasant and self - create darkness into the impose and coarse outer gloom of the unilluminated twelve - o'clock - at - night , i experience a disagreeable revulsion . nor do i at all object to the hint from queequeg that perhaps it be good to strike a light , see that we be so wide awake ; and besides he feel a strong desire to have a few quiet puff from his tomahawk . be it say , that though i have feel such a strong repugnance to his smoking in the bed the night before , yet see how elastic our stiff prejudice grow when love once come to bend they . for now i like nothing well than to have queequeg smoking by i , even in bed , because he seem to be full of such serene household joy then . i no more feel unduly concerned for the landlord 's policy of insurance . i be only alive to the condense confidential comfortableness of share a pipe and a blanket with a real friend . with our shaggy jacket draw about our shoulder , we now pass the tomahawk from one to the other , till slowly there grow over we a blue hang tester of smoke , illuminate by the flame of the new - light lamp .
whether it be that this undulating tester roll the savage away to far distant scene , i know not , but he now speak of his native island ; and , eager to hear his history , i beg he to go on and tell it . he gladly comply . though at the time i but ill comprehend not a few of his word , yet subsequent disclosure , when i have become more familiar with his broken phraseology , now enable i to present the whole story such as it may prove in the mere skeleton i give .
chapter 12
biographical .
queequeg be a native of rokovoko , an island far away to the west and south . it be not down in any map ; true place never be .
when a new - hatched savage run wild about his native woodland in a grass clout , follow by the nibble goat , as if he be a green sapling ; even then , in queequeg 's ambitious soul , lurk a strong desire to see something more of christendom than a speciman whaler or two . his father be a high chief , a king ; his uncle a high priest ; and on the maternal side he boast aunt who be the wife of unconquerable warrior . there be excellent blood in his vein -- royal stuff ; though sadly vitiate , i fear , by the cannibal propensity he nourish in his untutored youth .
a sag harbor ship visit his father 's bay , and queequeg seek a passage to christian land . but the ship , have her full complement of seaman , spurn his suit ; and not all the king his father 's influence could prevail . but queequeg vow a vow . alone in his canoe , he paddle off to a distant strait , which he know the ship must pass through when she quit the island . on one side be a coral reef ; on the other a low tongue of land , cover with mangrove thicket that grow out into the water . hide his canoe , still afloat , among these thicket , with its prow seaward , he sit down in the stern , paddle low in hand ; and when the ship be glide by , like a flash he dart out ; gain her side ; with one backward dash of his foot capsize and sink his canoe ; climb up the chain ; and throw himself at full length upon the deck , grapple a ring - bolt there , and swear not to let it go , though hack in piece .
in vain the captain threaten to throw he overboard ; suspend a cutlass over his naked wrist ; queequeg be the son of a king , and queequeg budge not . strike by his desperate dauntlessness , and his wild desire to visit christendom , the captain at last relent , and tell he he might make himself at home . but this fine young savage -- this sea prince of wales , never see the captain 's cabin . they put he down among the sailor , and make a whaleman of he . but like czar peter content to toil in the shipyard of foreign city , queequeg disdain no seem ignominy , if thereby he might happily gain the power of enlighten his untutored countryman . for at bottom -- so he tell i -- he be actuate by a profound desire to learn among the christians , the art whereby to make his people still happy than they be ; and more than that , still well than they be . but , alas ! the practice of whaleman soon convince he that even christians could be both miserable and wicked ; infinitely more so , than all his father 's heathen . arrive at last in old sag harbor ; and see what the sailor do there ; and then go on to nantucket , and see how they spend their wage in that place also , poor queequeg give it up for lost . thought he , it be a wicked world in all meridian ; i will die a pagan .
and thus an old idolator at heart , he yet live among these christians , wear their clothe , and try to talk their gibberish . hence the queer way about he , though now some time from home .
by hint , i ask he whether he do not propose go back , and have a coronation ; since he might now consider his father dead and go , he be very old and feeble at the last account . he answer no , not yet ; and add that he be fearful christianity , or rather christians , have unfit he for ascend the pure and undefiled throne of thirty pagan king before he . but by and by , he say , he would return,--as soon as he feel himself baptize again . for the nonce , however , he propose to sail about , and sow his wild oats in all four ocean . they have make a harpooneer of he , and that barbed iron be in lieu of a sceptre now .
i ask he what might be his immediate purpose , touch his future movement . he answer , to go to sea again , in his old vocation . upon this , i tell he that whale be my own design , and inform he of my intention to sail out of nantucket , as be the most promising port for an adventurous whaleman to embark from . he at once resolve to accompany i to that island , ship aboard the same vessel , get into the same watch , the same boat , the same mess with i , in short to share my every hap ; with both my hand in his , boldly dip into the potluck of both world . to all this i joyously assent ; for besides the affection i now feel for queequeg , he be an experienced harpooneer , and as such , could not fail to be of great usefulness to one , who , like i , be wholly ignorant of the mystery of whaling , though well acquaint with the sea , as know to merchant seaman .
his story be end with his pipe 's last die puff , queequeg embrace i , press his forehead against mine , and blow out the light , we roll over from each other , this way and that , and very soon be sleep .
chapter 13
wheelbarrow .
next morning , monday , after dispose of the embalmed head to a barber , for a block , i settle my own and comrade 's bill ; use , however , my comrade 's money . the grinning landlord , as well as the boarder , seem amazingly tickle at the sudden friendship which have spring up between i and queequeg -- especially as peter coffin 's cock and bull story about he have previously so much alarm i concern the very person whom i now companie with .
we borrow a wheelbarrow , and embark our thing , include my own poor carpet - bag , and queequeg 's canvas sack and hammock , away we go down to " the moss , " the little nantucket packet schooner moor at the wharf . as we be go along the people star ; not at queequeg so much -- for they be use to see cannibal like he in their streets,--but at see he and i upon such confidential term . but we heed they not , go along wheel the barrow by turn , and queequeg now and then stop to adjust the sheath on his harpoon barb . i ask he why he carry such a troublesome thing with he ashore , and whether all whale ship do not find their own harpoon . to this , in substance , he reply , that though what i hint be true enough , yet he have a particular affection for his own harpoon , because it be of assured stuff , well try in many a mortal combat , and deeply intimate with the heart of whale . in short , like many inland reaper and mower , who go into the farmer ' meadow armed with their own scythe -- though in no wise oblige to furnish they -- even so , queequeg , for his own private reason , prefer his own harpoon .
shift the barrow from my hand to his , he tell i a funny story about the first wheelbarrow he have ever see . it be in sag harbor . the owner of his ship , it seem , have lend he one , in which to carry his heavy chest to his boarding house . not to seem ignorant about the thing -- though in truth he be entirely so , concern the precise way in which to manage the barrow -- queequeg put his chest upon it ; lash it fast ; and then shoulder the barrow and march up the wharf . " why , " say i , " queequeg , you might have know well than that , one would think . do not the people laugh ? "
upon this , he tell i another story . the people of his island of rokovoko , it seem , at their wedding feast express the fragrant water of young cocoanut into a large stained calabash like a punchbowl ; and this punchbowl always form the great central ornament on the braided mat where the feast be hold . now a certain grand merchant ship once touch at rokovoko , and its commander -- from all account , a very stately punctilious gentleman , at least for a sea captain -- this commander be invite to the wedding feast of queequeg 's sister , a pretty young princess just turn of ten . well ; when all the wedding guest be assemble at the bride 's bamboo cottage , this captain march in , and be assign the post of honour , place himself over against the punchbowl , and between the high priest and his majesty the king , queequeg 's father . grace be said,--for those people have their grace as well as we -- though queequeg tell i that unlike we , who at such time look downwards to our platter , they , on the contrary , copy the duck , glance upwards to the great giver of all feast -- grace , i say , be say , the high priest open the banquet by the immemorial ceremony of the island ; that be , dip his consecrated and consecrate finger into the bowl before the bless beverage circulate . see himself place next the priest , and note the ceremony , and think himself -- be captain of a ship -- as have plain precedence over a mere island king , especially in the king 's own house -- the captain coolly proceed to wash his hand in the punchbowl;--taking it i suppose for a huge finger - glass . " now , " say queequeg , " what you tink now?--didn't our people laugh ? "
at last , passage pay , and luggage safe , we stand on board the schooner . hoist sail , it glide down the acushnet river . on one side , new bedford rise in terrace of street , their ice - cover tree all glitter in the clear , cold air . huge hill and mountain of cask on cask be pile upon her wharf , and side by side the world - wander whale ship lie silent and safely moor at last ; while from other come a sound of carpenter and cooper , with blended noise of fire and forge to melt the pitch , all betoken that new cruise be on the start ; that one most perilous and long voyage end , only begin a second ; and a second end , only begin a third , and so on , for ever and for aye . such be the endlessness , yea , the intolerableness of all earthly effort .
gain the more open water , the brace breeze wax fresh ; the little moss toss the quick foam from her bow , as a young colt his snorting . how i snuff that tartar air!--how i spurn that turnpike earth!--that common highway all over dent with the mark of slavish heel and hoof ; and turn i to admire the magnanimity of the sea which will permit no record .
at the same foam - fountain , queequeg seem to drink and reel with i . his dusky nostril swell apart ; he show his file and pointed tooth . on , on we fly ; and our offing gain , the moss do homage to the blast ; duck and dive her bow as a slave before the sultan . sideways lean , we sideway dart ; every ropeyarn tingling like a wire ; the two tall mast buckle like indian cane in land tornado . so full of this reel scene be we , as we stand by the plunging bowsprit , that for some time we do not notice the jeering glance of the passenger , a lubber - like assembly , who marvel that two fellow being should be so companionable ; as though a white man be anything more dignified than a whitewashed negro . but there be some booby and bumpkin there , who , by their intense greenness , must have come from the heart and centre of all verdure . queequeg catch one of these young sapling mimic he behind his back . i think the bumpkin 's hour of doom be come . drop his harpoon , the brawny savage catch he in his arm , and by an almost miraculous dexterity and strength , send he high up bodily into the air ; then slightly tap his stern in mid - somerset , the fellow land with burst lung upon his foot , while queequeg , turn his back upon he , light his tomahawk pipe and pass it to i for a puff .
" capting ! capting ! yell the bumpkin , run towards that officer ; " capting , capting , here be the devil . "
" hallo , you sir , " cry the captain , a gaunt rib of the sea , stalk up to queequeg , " what in thunder do you mean by that ? do not you know you might have kill that chap ? "
" what he say ? " say queequeg , as he mildly turn to i .
" he say , " say i , " that you come near kill - e that man there , " point to the still shiver greenhorn .
" kill - e , " cry queequeg , twist his tattooed face into an unearthly expression of disdain , " ah ! he bevy small - e fish - e ; queequeg no kill - e so small - e fish - e ; queequeg kill - e big whale ! "
" look you , " roar the captain , " i will kill - e you , you cannibal , if you try any more of your trick aboard here ; so mind your eye . "
but it so happen just then , that it be high time for the captain to mind his own eye . the prodigious strain upon the main - sail have part the weather - sheet , and the tremendous boom be now fly from side to side , completely sweep the entire after part of the deck . the poor fellow whom queequeg have handle so roughly , be sweep overboard ; all hand be in a panic ; and to attempt snatch at the boom to stay it , seem madness . it fly from right to left , and back again , almost in one tick of a watch , and every instant seem on the point of snap into splinter . nothing be do , and nothing seem capable of be do ; those on deck rush towards the bow , and stand eye the boom as if it be the low jaw of an exasperate whale . in the midst of this consternation , queequeg drop deftly to his knee , and crawl under the path of the boom , whip hold of a rope , secure one end to the bulwark , and then fling the other like a lasso , catch it round the boom as it sweep over his head , and at the next jerk , the spar be that way trap , and all be safe . the schooner be run into the wind , and while the hand be clear away the stern boat , queequeg , strip to the waist , dart from the side with a long live arc of a leap . for three minute or more he be see swim like a dog , throw his long arm straight out before he , and by turn reveal his brawny shoulder through the freezing foam . i look at the grand and glorious fellow , but see no one to be save . the greenhorn have go down . shoot himself perpendicularly from the water , queequeg , now take an instant 's glance around he , and seem to see just how matter be , dive down and disappear . a few minute more , and he rise again , one arm still strike out , and with the other drag a lifeless form . the boat soon pick they up . the poor bumpkin be restore . all hand vote queequeg a noble trump ; the captain beg his pardon . from that hour i clove to queequeg like a barnacle ; yea , till poor queequeg take his last long dive .
be there ever such unconsciousness ? he do not seem to think that he at all deserve a medal from the humane and magnanimous societies . he only ask for water -- fresh water -- something to wipe the brine off ; that do , he put on dry clothe , light his pipe , and lean against the bulwark , and mildly eye those around he , seem to be say to himself--"it be a mutual , joint - stock world , in all meridian . we cannibal must help these christians . "
chapter 14
nantucket .
nothing more happen on the passage worthy the mentioning ; so , after a fine run , we safely arrive in nantucket .
nantucket ! take out your map and look at it . see what a real corner of the world it occupy ; how it stand there , away off shore , more lonely than the eddystone lighthouse . look at it -- a mere hillock , and elbow of sand ; all beach , without a background . there be more sand there than you would use in twenty year as a substitute for blot paper . some gamesome wight will tell you that they have to plant weed there , they do not grow naturally ; that they import canada thistle ; that they have to send beyond sea for a spile to stop a leak in an oil cask ; that piece of wood in nantucket be carry about like bit of the true cross in rome ; that people there plant toadstool before their house , to get under the shade in summer time ; that one blade of grass make an oasis , three blade in a day 's walk a prairie ; that they wear quicksand shoe , something like laplander snow - shoe ; that they be so shut up , belt about , every way inclose , surround , and make an utter island of by the ocean , that to their very chair and table small clam will sometimes be find adhere , as to the back of sea turtle . but these extravaganza only show that nantucket be no illinois .
look now at the wondrous traditional story of how this island be settle by the red - man . thus go the legend . in olden time an eagle swoop down upon the new england coast , and carry off an infant indian in his talon . with loud lament the parent see their child bear out of sight over the wide water . they resolve to follow in the same direction . set out in their canoe , after a perilous passage they discover the island , and there they find an empty ivory casket,--the poor little indian 's skeleton .
what wonder , then , that these nantucketers , bear on a beach , should take to the sea for a livelihood ! they first catch crab and quohog in the sand ; grow bolder , they wad out with net for mackerel ; more experienced , they push off in boat and capture cod ; and at last , launch a navy of great ship on the sea , explore this watery world ; put an incessant belt of circumnavigation round it ; peep in at behring 's straits ; and in all season and all ocean declare everlaste war with the mighty animate mass that have survive the flood ; most monstrous and most mountainous ! that himmalehan , salt - sea mastodon , clothe with such portentousness of unconscious power , that his very panic be more to be dread than his most fearless and malicious assault !
and thus have these naked nantucketers , these sea hermit , issue from their ant - hill in the sea , overrun and conquer the watery world like so many alexander ; parcel out among they the atlantic , pacific , and indian ocean , as the three pirate power do poland . let america add mexico to texas , and pile cuba upon canada ; let the english overswarm all india , and hang out their blaze banner from the sun ; two third of this terraqueous globe be the nantucketer 's . for the sea be his ; he own it , as emperor own empire ; other seaman have but a right of way through it . merchant ship be but extension bridge ; armed one but float fort ; even pirate and privateer , though follow the sea as highwayman the road , they but plunder other ship , other fragment of the land like themselves , without seek to draw their living from the bottomless deep itself . the nantucketer , he alone reside and riot on the sea ; he alone , in bible language , go down to it in ship ; to and fro plough it as his own special plantation . there be his home ; there lie his business , which a noah 's flood would not interrupt , though it overwhelm all the million in china . he live on the sea , as prairie cock in the prairie ; he hide among the wave , he climb they as chamois hunter climb the alps . for year he know not the land ; so that when he come to it at last , it smell like another world , more strangely than the moon would to an earthsman . with the landless gull , that at sunset fold her wing and be rock to sleep between billow ; so at nightfall , the nantucketer , out of sight of land , furl his sail , and lay he to his rest , while under his very pillow rush herd of walrus and whale .
chapter 15
chowder .
it be quite late in the evening when the little moss come snugly to anchor , and queequeg and i go ashore ; so we could attend to no business that day , at least none but a supper and a bed . the landlord of the spouter - inn have recommend we to his cousin hosea hussey of the try pot , whom he assert to be the proprietor of one of the good keep hotel in all nantucket , and moreover he have assure we that cousin hosea , as he call he , be famous for his chowder . in short , he plainly hint that we could not possibly do well than try pot - luck at the try pot . but the direction he have give we about keep a yellow warehouse on our starboard hand till we open a white church to the larboard , and then keep that on the larboard hand till we make a corner three point to the starboard , and that do , then ask the first man we meet where the place be : these crooked direction of his very much puzzle we at first , especially as , at the outset , queequeg insist that the yellow warehouse -- our first point of departure -- must be leave on the larboard hand , whereas i have understand peter coffin to say it be on the starboard . however , by dint of beat about a little in the dark , and now and then knock up a peaceable inhabitant to inquire the way , we at last come to something which there be no mistaking .
two enormous wooden pot paint black , and suspend by ass ' ear , swing from the cross - tree of an old top - mast , plant in front of an old doorway . the horn of the cross - tree be saw off on the other side , so that this old top - mast look not a little like a gallow . perhaps i be over sensitive to such impression at the time , but i could not help star at this gallow with a vague misgiving . a sort of crick be in my neck as i gaze up to the two remain horn ; yes , two of they , one for queequeg , and one for i . it be ominous , think i. a coffin my innkeeper upon land in my first whale port ; tombstone star at i in the whaleman 's chapel ; and here a gallow ! and a pair of prodigious black pot too ! be these last throw out oblique hint touch tophet ?
i be call from these reflection by the sight of a freckle woman with yellow hair and a yellow gown , stand in the porch of the inn , under a dull red lamp swing there , that look much like an injured eye , and carry on a brisk scolding with a man in a purple woollen shirt .
" get along with ye , " say she to the man , " or i will be comb ye ! "
" come on , queequeg , " say i , " all right . there be mrs. hussey . "
and so it turn out ; mr. hosea hussey be from home , but leave mrs. hussey entirely competent to attend to all his affair . upon make know our desire for a supper and a bed , mrs. hussey , postpone further scolding for the present , usher we into a little room , and seat we at a table spread with the relic of a recently conclude repast , turn round to we and said--"clam or cod ? "
" what be that about cods , ma'am ? " say i , with much politeness .
" clam or cod ? " she repeat .
" a clam for supper ? a cold clam ; be that what you mean , mrs. hussey ? " say i , " but that be a rather cold and clammy reception in the winter time , be not it , mrs. hussey ? "
but be in a great hurry to resume scold the man in the purple shirt , who be wait for it in the entry , and seem to hear nothing but the word " clam , " mrs. hussey hurry towards an open door lead to the kitchen , and bawl out " clam for two , " disappear .
" queequeg , " say i , " do you think that we can make out a supper for we both on one clam ? "
however , a warm savory steam from the kitchen serve to belie the apparently cheerless prospect before we . but when that smoking chowder come in , the mystery be delightfully explain . oh , sweet friend ! hearken to i . it be make of small juicy clams , scarcely big than hazel nut , mix with pound ship biscuit , and salt pork cut up into little flake ; the whole enrich with butter , and plentifully season with pepper and salt . our appetite be sharpen by the frosty voyage , and in particular , queequeg see his favourite fishing food before he , and the chowder be surpassingly excellent , we despatch it with great expedition : when lean back a moment and bethink i of mrs. hussey 's clam and cod announcement , i think i would try a little experiment . step to the kitchen door , i utter the word " cod " with great emphasis , and resume my seat . in a few moment the savoury steam come forth again , but with a different flavor , and in good time a fine cod - chowder be place before we .
we resume business ; and while ply our spoon in the bowl , think i to myself , i wonder now if this here have any effect on the head ? what be that stultifying say about chowder - head people ? " but look , queequeg , be not that a live eel in your bowl ? where be your harpoon ? "
fishiest of all fishy place be the try pot , which well deserve its name ; for the pot there be always boil chowder . chowder for breakfast , and chowder for dinner , and chowder for supper , till you begin to look for fish - bone come through your clothe . the area before the house be pave with clam - shell . mrs. hussey wear a polished necklace of codfish vertebra ; and hosea hussey have his account book bind in superior old shark - skin . there be a fishy flavor to the milk , too , which i could not at all account for , till one morning happen to take a stroll along the beach among some fisherman 's boat , i see hosea 's brindle cow feed on fish remnant , and march along the sand with each foot in a cod 's decapitate head , look very slip - shod , i assure ye .
supper conclude , we receive a lamp , and direction from mrs. hussey concern the near way to bed ; but , as queequeg be about to precede i up the stair , the lady reach forth her arm , and demand his harpoon ; she allow no harpoon in her chamber . " why not ? say i ; " every true whaleman sleep with his harpoon -- but why not ? " " because it be dangerous , " say she . " ever since young stiggs come from that unfort'nt v'y'ge of his , when he be go four year and a half , with only three barrel of ile , be find dead in my first floor back , with his harpoon in his side ; ever since then i allow no boarder to take sich dangerous weepon in their room at night . so , mr. queequeg " ( for she have learn his name ) , " i will just take this here iron , and keep it for you till morning . but the chowder ; clam or cod to - morrow for breakfast , man ? "
" both , " say i ; " and let us have a couple of smoke herring by way of variety . "
chapter 16
the ship .
in bed we concoct our plan for the morrow . but to my surprise and no small concern , queequeg now give i to understand , that he have be diligently consult yojo -- the name of his black little god -- and yojo have tell he two or three time over , and strongly insist upon it everyway , that instead of our go together among the whaling - fleet in harbor , and in concert select our craft ; instead of this , i say , yojo earnestly enjoin that the selection of the ship should rest wholly with i , inasmuch as yojo purpose befriend we ; and , in order to do so , have already pitch upon a vessel , which , if leave to myself , i , ishmael , should infallibly light upon , for all the world as though it have turn out by chance ; and in that vessel i must immediately ship myself , for the present irrespective of queequeg .
i have forget to mention that , in many thing , queequeg place great confidence in the excellence of yojo 's judgment and surprising forecast of thing ; and cherish yojo with considerable esteem , as a rather good sort of god , who perhaps mean well enough upon the whole , but in all case do not succeed in his benevolent design .
now , this plan of queequeg 's , or rather yojo 's , touch the selection of our craft ; i do not like that plan at all . i have not a little rely upon queequeg 's sagacity to point out the whaler well fit to carry we and our fortune securely . but as all my remonstrance produce no effect upon queequeg , i be oblige to acquiesce ; and accordingly prepare to set about this business with a determined rushing sort of energy and vigor , that should quickly settle that trifle little affair . next morning early , leave queequeg shut up with yojo in our little bedroom -- for it seem that it be some sort of lent or ramadan , or day of fasting , humiliation , and prayer with queequeg and yojo that day ; how it be i never could find out , for , though i apply myself to it several time , i never could master his liturgy and xxxix articles -- leave queequeg , then , fast on his tomahawk pipe , and yojo warm himself at his sacrificial fire of shaving , i sally out among the shipping . after much prolonged sauntering and many random inquiry , i learn that there be three ship up for three - year ' voyage -- the devil - dam , the tit - bit , and the pequod . devil - dam , i do not know the origin of ; tit - bit be obvious ; pequod , you will no doubt remember , be the name of a celebrated tribe of massachusetts indians ; now extinct as the ancient medes . i peer and pry about the devil - dam ; from she , hop over to the tit - bit ; and finally , go on board the pequod , look around she for a moment , and then decide that this be the very ship for we .
you may have see many a quaint craft in your day , for aught i know;--square - toed lugger ; mountainous japanese junk ; butter - box galliot , and what not ; but take my word for it , you never see such a rare old craft as this same rare old pequod . she be a ship of the old school , rather small if anything ; with an old - fashioned claw - foot look about she . long seasoned and weather - stain in the typhoon and calm of all four ocean , her old hull 's complexion be darken like a french grenadier 's , who have alike fight in egypt and siberia . her venerable bow look bearded . her mast -- cut somewhere on the coast of japan , where her original one be lose overboard in a gale -- her mast stand stiffly up like the spine of the three old king of cologne . her ancient deck be wear and wrinkle , like the pilgrim - worship flag - stone in canterbury cathedral where becket bleed . but to all these her old antiquity , be add new and marvellous feature , pertain to the wild business that for more than half a century she have follow . old captain peleg , many year her chief - mate , before he command another vessel of his own , and now a retired seaman , and one of the principal owner of the pequod,--this old peleg , during the term of his chief - mateship , have build upon her original grotesqueness , and inlay it , all over , with a quaintness both of material and device , unmatched by anything except it be thorkill - hake 's carve buckler or bedstead . she be apparelle like any barbaric ethiopian emperor , his neck heavy with pendant of polished ivory . she be a thing of trophy . a cannibal of a craft , trick herself forth in the chased bone of her enemy . all round , her unpanelled , open bulwark be garnish like one continuous jaw , with the long sharp tooth of the sperm whale , insert there for pin , to fasten her old hempen thews and tendon to . those thew run not through base block of land wood , but deftly travel over sheaf of sea - ivory . scorn a turnstile wheel at her reverend helm , she sport there a tiller ; and that tiller be in one mass , curiously carve from the long narrow low jaw of her hereditary foe . the helmsman who steer by that tiller in a temp , feel like the tartar , when he hold back his fiery steed by clutch its jaw . a noble craft , but somehow a most melancholy ! all noble thing be touch with that .
now when i look about the quarter - deck , for some one have authority , in order to propose myself as a candidate for the voyage , at first i see nobody ; but i could not well overlook a strange sort of tent , or rather wigwam , pitch a little behind the main - mast . it seem only a temporary erection use in port . it be of a conical shape , some ten foot high ; consist of the long , huge slab of limber black bone take from the middle and high part of the jaw of the right - whale . plant with their broad end on the deck , a circle of these slab lace together , mutually slop towards each other , and at the apex unite in a tufte point , where the loose hairy fibre wave to and fro like the top - knot on some old pottowottamie sachem 's head . a triangular opening face towards the bow of the ship , so that the insider command a complete view forward .
and half conceal in this queer tenement , i at length find one who by his aspect seem to have authority ; and who , it be noon , and the ship 's work suspend , be now enjoy respite from the burden of command . he be seat on an old - fashioned oaken chair , wriggle all over with curious carving ; and the bottom of which be form of a stout interlace of the same elastic stuff of which the wigwam be construct .
there be nothing so very particular , perhaps , about the appearance of the elderly man i see ; he be brown and brawny , like most old seaman , and heavily roll up in blue pilot - cloth , cut in the quaker style ; only there be a fine and almost microscopic net - work of the minute wrinkle interlace round his eye , which must have arise from his continual sailing in many hard gale , and always look to windward;--for this cause the muscle about the eye to become pursed together . such eye - wrinkle be very effectual in a scowl .
" be this the captain of the pequod ? " say i , advance to the door of the tent .
" suppose it be the captain of the pequod , what dost thou want of he ? " he demand .
" i be think of shipping . "
" thou wast , wast thou ? i see thou art no nantucketer -- ever be in a stove boat ? "
" no , sir , i never have . "
" dost know nothing at all about whaling , i dare say -- eh ?
" nothing , sir ; but i have no doubt i shall soon learn . i have be several voyage in the merchant service , and i think that-- "
" merchant service be damn . talk not that lingo to i . dost see that leg?--i'll take that leg away from thy stern , if ever thou talk of the marchant service to i again . marchant service indeed ! i suppose now ye feel considerable proud of having serve in those marchant ship . but fluke ! man , what make thee want to go a whaling , eh?--it look a little suspicious , do not it , eh?--hast not be a pirate , hast thou?--didst not rob thy last captain , didst thou?--dost not think of murder the officer when thou gettest to sea ? "
i protest my innocence of these thing . i see that under the mask of these half humorous innuendo , this old seaman , as an insulate quakerish nantucketer , be full of his insular prejudice , and rather distrustful of all alien , unless they hail from cape cod or the vineyard .
" but what take thee a - whaling ? i want to know that before i think of ship ye . "
" well , sir , i want to see what whaling be . i want to see the world . "
" want to see what whaling be , eh ? have ye clap eye on captain ahab ? "
" who be captain ahab , sir ? "
" aye , aye , i think so . captain ahab be the captain of this ship . "
" i be mistaken then . i think i be speak to the captain himself . "
" thou art speak to captain peleg -- that be who ye be speak to , young man . it belong to i and captain bildad to see the pequod fit out for the voyage , and supply with all her need , include crew . we be part owner and agent . but as i be go to say , if thou wantest to know what whaling be , as thou tell ye do , i can put ye in a way of find it out before ye bind yourself to it , past back out . clap eye on captain ahab , young man , and thou wilt find that he have only one leg . "
" what do you mean , sir ? be the other one lose by a whale ? "
" lose by a whale ! young man , come near to i : it be devour , chew up , crunch by the monstrous parmacetty that ever chip a boat!--ah , ah ! "
i be a little alarmed by his energy , perhaps also a little touch at the hearty grief in his concluding exclamation , but say as calmly as i could , " what you say be no doubt true enough , sir ; but how could i know there be any peculiar ferocity in that particular whale , though indeed i might have infer as much from the simple fact of the accident . "
" look ye now , young man , thy lung be a sort of soft , d'ye see ; thou dost not talk shark a bit . sure , ye've be to sea before now ; sure of that ? "
" sir , " say i , " i think i tell you that i have be four voyage in the merchant-- "
" hard down out of that ! mind what i say about the marchant service -- don't aggravate i -- i will not have it . but let we understand each other . i have give thee a hint about what whaling be ; do ye yet feel inclined for it ? "
" i do , sir . "
" very good . now , art thou the man to pitch a harpoon down a live whale 's throat , and then jump after it ? answer , quick ! "
" i be , sir , if it should be positively indispensable to do so ; not to be got rid of , that be ; which i do not take to be the fact . "
" good again . now then , thou not only want to go a - whaling , to find out by experience what whaling be , but ye also want to go in order to see the world ? be not that what ye say ? i think so . well then , just step forward there , and take a peep over the weather - bow , and then back to i and tell i what ye see there . "
for a moment i stand a little puzzled by this curious request , not know exactly how to take it , whether humorously or in earnest . but concentrate all his crow 's foot into one scowl , captain peleg start i on the errand .
go forward and glance over the weather bow , i perceive that the ship swing to her anchor with the flood - tide , be now obliquely point towards the open ocean . the prospect be unlimited , but exceedingly monotonous and forbidding ; not the slight variety that i could see .
" well , what be the report ? " say peleg when i come back ; " what do ye see ? "
" not much , " i replied--"nothe but water ; considerable horizon though , and there be a squall come up , i think . "
" well , what do thou think then of see the world ? do ye wish to go round cape horn to see any more of it , eh ? can not ye see the world where you stand ? "
i be a little stagger , but go a - whaling i must , and i would ; and the pequod be as good a ship as any -- i think the good -- and all this i now repeat to peleg . see i so determined , he express his willingness to ship i .
" and thou mayest as well sign the paper right off , " he added--"come along with ye . " and so say , he lead the way below deck into the cabin .
seat on the transom be what seem to i a most uncommon and surprising figure . it turn out to be captain bildad , who along with captain peleg be one of the large owner of the vessel ; the other share , as be sometimes the case in these port , be hold by a crowd of old annuitant ; widow , fatherless child , and chancery ward ; each own about the value of a timber head , or a foot of plank , or a nail or two in the ship . people in nantucket invest their money in whale vessel , the same way that you do yours in approve state stock bring in good interest .
now , bildad , like peleg , and indeed many other nantucketers , be a quaker , the island having be originally settle by that sect ; and to this day its inhabitant in general retain in an uncommon measure the peculiarity of the quaker , only variously and anomalously modify by thing altogether alien and heterogeneous . for some of these same quakers be the most sanguinary of all sailor and whale - hunter . they be fight quakers ; they be quakers with a vengeance .
so that there be instance among they of man , who , name with scripture name -- a singularly common fashion on the island -- and in childhood naturally imbibe the stately dramatic thee and thou of the quaker idiom ; still , from the audacious , daring , and boundless adventure of their subsequent life , strangely blend with these unoutgrown peculiarity , a thousand bold dash of character , not unworthy a scandinavian sea - king , or a poetical pagan roman . and when these thing unite in a man of greatly superior natural force , with a globular brain and a ponderous heart ; who have also by the stillness and seclusion of many long night - watch in the remotest water , and beneath constellation never see here at the north , be lead to think untraditionally and independently ; receive all nature 's sweet or savage impression fresh from her own virgin voluntary and confide breast , and thereby chiefly , but with some help from accidental advantage , to learn a bold and nervous lofty language -- that man make one in a whole nation 's census -- a mighty pageant creature , form for noble tragedy . nor will it at all detract from he , dramatically regard , if either by birth or other circumstance , he have what seem a half wilful overruling morbidness at the bottom of his nature . for all man tragically great be make so through a certain morbidness . be sure of this , o young ambition , all mortal greatness be but disease . but , as yet we have not to do with such an one , but with quite another ; and still a man , who , if indeed peculiar , it only result again from another phase of the quaker , modify by individual circumstance .
like captain peleg , captain bildad be a well - to - do , retire whaleman . but unlike captain peleg -- who care not a rush for what be call serious thing , and indeed deem those self - same serious thing the veriest of all trifle -- captain bildad have not only be originally educate accord to the strict sect of nantucket quakerism , but all his subsequent ocean life , and the sight of many unclad , lovely island creature , round the horn -- all that have not move this native bear quaker one single jot , have not so much as alter one angle of his vest . still , for all this immutableness , be there some lack of common consistency about worthy captain peleg . though refuse , from conscientious scruple , to bear arm against land invader , yet himself have illimitably invade the atlantic and pacific ; and though a swear foe to human bloodshed , yet have he in his straight - bodied coat , spill tun upon tun of leviathan gore . how now in the contemplative evening of his day , the pious bildad reconcile these thing in the reminiscence , i do not know ; but it do not seem to concern he much , and very probably he have long since come to the sage and sensible conclusion that a man 's religion be one thing , and this practical world quite another . this world pay dividend . rise from a little cabin - boy in short clothe of the drab drab , to a harpooneer in a broad shad - belly waistcoat ; from that become boat - header , chief - mate , and captain , and finally a ship owner ; bildad , as i hint before , have conclude his adventurous career by wholly retire from active life at the goodly age of sixty , and dedicate his remain day to the quiet receiving of his well - earn income .
now , bildad , i be sorry to say , have the reputation of be an incorrigible old hunk , and in his sea - go day , a bitter , hard task - master . they tell i in nantucket , though it certainly seem a curious story , that when he sail the old categut whaleman , his crew , upon arrive home , be mostly all carry ashore to the hospital , sore exhausted and wear out . for a pious man , especially for a quaker , he be certainly rather hard - hearted , to say the least . he never use to swear , though , at his man , they say ; but somehow he get an inordinate quantity of cruel , unmitigated hard work out of they . when bildad be a chief - mate , to have his drab - colour eye intently look at you , make you feel completely nervous , till you could clutch something -- a hammer or a marling - spike , and go to work like mad , at something or other , never mind what . indolence and idleness perish before he . his own person be the exact embodiment of his utilitarian character . on his long , gaunt body , he carry no spare flesh , no superfluous beard , his chin have a soft , economical nap to it , like the worn nap of his broad - brim hat .
such , then , be the person that i see seat on the transom when i follow captain peleg down into the cabin . the space between the deck be small ; and there , bolt - upright , sit old bildad , who always sit so , and never lean , and this to save his coat tail . his broad - brim be place beside he ; his leg be stiffly cross ; his drab vesture be button up to his chin ; and spectacle on nose , he seem absorb in read from a ponderous volume .
" bildad , " cry captain peleg , " at it again , bildad , eh ? ye have be study those scripture , now , for the last thirty year , to my certain knowledge . how far ye get , bildad ? "
as if long habituate to such profane talk from his old shipmate , bildad , without notice his present irreverence , quietly look up , and see i , glance again inquiringly towards peleg .
" he say he be our man , bildad , " say peleg , " he want to ship . "
" dost thee ? " say bildad , in a hollow tone , and turn round to i .
" i dost , " say i unconsciously , he be so intense a quaker .
" what do ye think of he , bildad ? " say peleg .
" he will do , " say bildad , eye i , and then go on spelling away at his book in a mumbling tone quite audible .
i think he the queer old quaker i ever see , especially as peleg , his friend and old shipmate , seem such a blusterer . but i say nothing , only look round i sharply . peleg now throw open a chest , and draw forth the ship 's article , place pen and ink before he , and seat himself at a little table . i begin to think it be high time to settle with myself at what term i would be willing to engage for the voyage . i be already aware that in the whale business they pay no wage ; but all hand , include the captain , receive certain share of the profit call lay , and that these lay be proportion to the degree of importance pertain to the respective duty of the ship 's company . i be also aware that be a green hand at whaling , my own lay would not be very large ; but consider that i be use to the sea , could steer a ship , splice a rope , and all that , i make no doubt that from all i have hear i should be offer at least the 275th lay -- that is , the 275th part of the clear net proceed of the voyage , whatever that might eventually amount to . and though the 275th lay be what they call a rather long lay , yet it be well than nothing ; and if we have a lucky voyage , might pretty nearly pay for the clothing i would wear out on it , not to speak of my three year ' beef and board , for which i would not have to pay one stiver .
it might be think that this be a poor way to accumulate a princely fortune -- and so it be , a very poor way indeed . but i be one of those that never take on about princely fortune , and be quite content if the world be ready to board and lodge i , while i be put up at this grim sign of the thunder cloud . upon the whole , i think that the 275th lay would be about the fair thing , but would not have be surprised have i be offer the 200th , consider i be of a broad - shoulder make .
but one thing , nevertheless , that make i a little distrustful about receive a generous share of the profit be this : ashore , i have hear something of both captain peleg and his unaccountable old crony bildad ; how that they be the principal proprietor of the pequod , therefore the other and more inconsiderable and scattered owner , leave nearly the whole management of the ship 's affair to these two . and i do not know but what the stingy old bildad might have a mighty deal to say about ship hand , especially as i now find he on board the pequod , quite at home there in the cabin , and read his bible as if at his own fireside . now while peleg be vainly try to mend a pen with his jack - knife , old bildad , to my no small surprise , consider that he be such an interested party in these proceeding ; bildad never heed we , but go on mumble to himself out of his book , " lay not up for yourself treasure upon earth , where moth-- "
" well , captain bildad , " interrupt peleg , " what d'ye say , what lie shall we give this young man ? "
" thou know well , " be the sepulchral reply , " the seven hundred and seventy - seventh would not be too much , would it?--'where moth and rust do corrupt , but lay-- ' "
lay , indeed , think i , and such a lay ! the seven hundred and seventy - seventh ! well , old bildad , you be determined that i , for one , shall not lay up many lay here below , where moth and rust do corrupt . it be an exceedingly long lay that , indeed ; and though from the magnitude of the figure it might at first deceive a landsman , yet the slight consideration will show that though seven hundred and seventy - seven be a pretty large number , yet , when you come to make a teenth of it , you will then see , i say , that the seven hundred and seventy - seventh part of a farthing be a good deal less than seven hundred and seventy - seven gold doubloon ; and so i think at the time .
" why , blast your eye , bildad , " cry peleg , " thou dost not want to swindle this young man ! he must have more than that . "
" seven hundred and seventy - seventh , " again say bildad , without lift his eye ; and then go on mumbling--"for where your treasure be , there will your heart be also . "
" i be go to put he down for the three hundredth , " say peleg , " do ye hear that , bildad ! the three hundredth lay , i say . "
bildad lay down his book , and turn solemnly towards he say , " captain peleg , thou hast a generous heart ; but thou must consider the duty thou ow to the other owner of this ship -- widow and orphan , many of they -- and that if we too abundantly reward the labor of this young man , we may be take the bread from those widow and those orphan . the seven hundred and seventy - seventh lay , captain peleg . "
" thou bildad ! " roar peleg , start up and clatter about the cabin . " blast ye , captain bildad , if i have follow thy advice in these matter , i would afore now have a conscience to lug about that would be heavy enough to founder the large ship that ever sail round cape horn . "
" captain peleg , " say bildad steadily , " thy conscience may be draw ten inch of water , or ten fathom , i can not tell ; but as thou art still an impenitent man , captain peleg , i greatly fear lest thy conscience be but a leaky one ; and will in the end sink thee founder down to the fiery pit , captain peleg . "
" fiery pit ! fiery pit ! ye insult i , man ; past all natural bearing , ye insult i . it be an all - fire outrage to tell any human creature that he be bind to hell . fluke and flame ! bildad , say that again to i , and start my soul - bolt , but i'll -- i'll -- yes , i will swallow a live goat with all his hair and horn on . out of the cabin , ye canting , drab - coloured son of a wooden gun -- a straight wake with ye ! "
as he thunder out this he make a rush at bildad , but with a marvellous oblique , slide celerity , bildad for that time elude he .
alarm at this terrible outburst between the two principal and responsible owner of the ship , and feel half a mind to give up all idea of sail in a vessel so questionably own and temporarily command , i step aside from the door to give egress to bildad , who , i make no doubt , be all eagerness to vanish from before the awakened wrath of peleg . but to my astonishment , he sit down again on the transom very quietly , and seem to have not the slight intention of withdraw . he seem quite use to impenitent peleg and his way . as for peleg , after let off his rage as he have , there seem no more left in he , and he , too , sit down like a lamb , though he twitch a little as if still nervously agitated . " whew ! " he whistle at last--"the squall 's go off to leeward , i think . bildad , thou use to be good at sharpen a lance , mend that pen , will ye . my jack - knife here need the grindstone . that be he ; thank ye , bildad . now then , my young man , ishmael 's thy name , do not ye say ? well then , down ye go here , ishmael , for the three hundredth lay . "
" captain peleg , " say i , " i have a friend with i who want to ship too -- shall i bring he down to - morrow ? "
" to be sure , " say peleg . " fetch he along , and we will look at he . "
" what lie do he want ? " groan bildad , glance up from the book in which he have again be bury himself .
" oh ! never thee mind about that , bildad , " say peleg . " have he ever whale it any ? " turn to i .
" kill more whale than i can count , captain peleg . "
" well , bring he along then . "
and , after sign the paper , off i go ; nothing doubt but that i have do a good morning 's work , and that the pequod be the identical ship that yojo have provide to carry queequeg and i round the cape .
but i have not proceed far , when i begin to bethink i that the captain with whom i be to sail yet remain unseen by i ; though , indeed , in many case , a whale - ship will be completely fit out , and receive all her crew on board , ere the captain make himself visible by arrive to take command ; for sometimes these voyage be so prolonged , and the shore interval at home so exceedingly brief , that if the captain have a family , or any absorbing concernment of that sort , he do not trouble himself much about his ship in port , but leave she to the owner till all be ready for sea . however , it be always as well to have a look at he before irrevocably commit yourself into his hand . turn back i accost captain peleg , inquire where captain ahab be to be find .
" and what dost thou want of captain ahab ? it be all right enough ; thou art ship . "
" yes , but i should like to see he . "
" but i do not think thou wilt be able to at present . i do not know exactly what be the matter with he ; but he keep close inside the house ; a sort of sick , and yet he do not look so . in fact , he be not sick ; but no , he be not well either . any how , young man , he will not always see i , so i do not suppose he will thee . he be a queer man , captain ahab -- so some think -- but a good one . oh , thou'lt like he well enough ; no fear , no fear . he be a grand , ungodly , god - like man , captain ahab ; do not speak much ; but , when he do speak , then you may well listen . mark ye , be forewarn ; ahab be above the common ; ahab be be in college , as well as ' mong the cannibal ; be use to deep wonder than the wave ; fix his fiery lance in mighty , strange foe than whale . his lance ! aye , the keen and the sure that out of all our isle ! oh ! he be not captain bildad ; no , and he be not captain peleg ; he be ahab , boy ; and ahab of old , thou know , be a crown king ! "
" and a very vile one . when that wicked king be slain , the dog , do they not lick his blood ? "
" come hither to i -- hither , hither , " say peleg , with a significance in his eye that almost startle i . " look ye , lad ; never say that on board the pequod . never say it anywhere . captain ahab do not name himself . ' twas a foolish , ignorant whim of his crazy , widow mother , who die when he be only a twelvemonth old . and yet the old squaw tistig , at gayhead , say that the name would somehow prove prophetic . and , perhaps , other fool like she may tell thee the same . i wish to warn thee . it be a lie . i know captain ahab well ; i have sail with he as mate year ago ; i know what he be -- a good man -- not a pious , good man , like bildad , but a swear good man -- something like i -- only there be a good deal more of he . aye , aye , i know that he be never very jolly ; and i know that on the passage home , he be a little out of his mind for a spell ; but it be the sharp shooting pain in his bleeding stump that bring that about , as any one might see . i know , too , that ever since he lose his leg last voyage by that accurse whale , he be be a kind of moody -- desperate moody , and savage sometimes ; but that will all pass off . and once for all , let i tell thee and assure thee , young man , it be well to sail with a moody good captain than a laugh bad one . so good - bye to thee -- and wrong not captain ahab , because he happen to have a wicked name . besides , my boy , he have a wife -- not three voyage wed -- a sweet , resign girl . think of that ; by that sweet girl that old man have a child : hold ye then there can be any utter , hopeless harm in ahab ? no , no , my lad ; stricken , blast , if he be , ahab have his humanity ! "
as i walk away , i be full of thoughtfulness ; what have be incidentally reveal to i of captain ahab , fill i with a certain wild vagueness of painfulness concern he . and somehow , at the time , i feel a sympathy and a sorrow for he , but for i do not know what , unless it be the cruel loss of his leg . and yet i also feel a strange awe of he ; but that sort of awe , which i can not at all describe , be not exactly awe ; i do not know what it be . but i feel it ; and it do not disincline i towards he ; though i feel impatience at what seem like mystery in he , so imperfectly as he be know to i then . however , my thought be at length carry in other direction , so that for the present dark ahab slip my mind .
chapter 17
the ramadan .
as queequeg 's ramadan , or fasting and humiliation , be to continue all day , i do not choose to disturb he till towards night - fall ; for i cherish the great respect towards everybody 's religious obligation , never mind how comical , and could not find it in my heart to undervalue even a congregation of ant worship a toad - stool ; or those other creature in certain part of our earth , who with a degree of footmanism quite unprecedented in other planet , bow down before the torso of a deceased land proprietor merely on account of the inordinate possession yet own and rent in his name .
i say , we good presbyterian christians should be charitable in these thing , and not fancy ourselves so vastly superior to other mortal , pagan and what not , because of their half - crazy conceit on these subject . there be queequeg , now , certainly entertain the most absurd notion about yojo and his ramadan;--but what of that ? queequeg think he know what he be about , i suppose ; he seem to be content ; and there let he rest . all our arguing with he would not avail ; let he be , i say : and heaven have mercy on we all -- presbyterians and pagans alike -- for we be all somehow dreadfully crack about the head , and sadly need mending .
towards evening , when i felt assure that all his performance and ritual must be over , i go up to his room and knock at the door ; but no answer . i try to open it , but it be fasten inside . " queequeg , " say i softly through the key - hole:--all silent . " i say , queequeg ! why do not you speak ? it be i -- ishmael . " but all remain still as before . i begin to grow alarmed . i have allow he such abundant time ; i think he might have have an apoplectic fit . i look through the key - hole ; but the door open into an odd corner of the room , the key - hole prospect be but a crooked and sinister one . i could only see part of the foot - board of the bed and a line of the wall , but nothing more . i be surprised to behold rest against the wall the wooden shaft of queequeg 's harpoon , which the landlady the evening previous have take from he , before our mounting to the chamber . that be strange , think i ; but at any rate , since the harpoon stand yonder , and he seldom or never go abroad without it , therefore he must be inside here , and no possible mistake .
" queequeg!--queequeg!"--all still . something must have happen . apoplexy ! i try to burst open the door ; but it stubbornly resist . run down stair , i quickly state my suspicion to the first person i meet -- the chamber - maid . " la ! la ! " she cry , " i think something must be the matter . i go to make the bed after breakfast , and the door be lock ; and not a mouse to be hear ; and it be be just so silent ever since . but i think , may be , you have both go off and lock your baggage in for safe keeping . la ! la , ma'am!--mistress ! murder ! mrs. hussey ! apoplexy!"--and with these cry , she run towards the kitchen , i follow .
mrs. hussey soon appear , with a mustard - pot in one hand and a vinegar - cruet in the other , having just break away from the occupation of attend to the castor , and scold her little black boy meantime .
" wood - house ! " cry i , " which way to it ? run for god 's sake , and fetch something to pry open the door -- the axe!--the axe ! he be have a stroke ; depend upon it!"--and so say i be unmethodically rush up stair again empty - handed , when mrs. hussey interpose the mustard - pot and vinegar - cruet , and the entire castor of her countenance .
" what be the matter with you , young man ? "
" get the axe ! for god 's sake , run for the doctor , some one , while i pry it open ! "
" look here , " say the landlady , quickly put down the vinegar - cruet , so as to have one hand free ; " look here ; be you talk about pry open any of my doors?"--and with that she seize my arm . " what be the matter with you ? what be the matter with you , shipmate ? "
in as calm , but rapid a manner as possible , i give she to understand the whole case . unconsciously clap the vinegar - cruet to one side of her nose , she ruminate for an instant ; then exclaimed--"no ! i have not see it since i put it there . " run to a little closet under the landing of the stair , she glance in , and return , tell i that queequeg 's harpoon be missing . " he be kill himself , " she cry . " it be unfort'nate stiggs do over again there go another counterpane -- god pity his poor mother!--it will be the ruin of my house . have the poor lad a sister ? where be that girl?--there , betty , go to snarles the painter , and tell he to paint i a sign , with--"no suicide permit here , and no smoking in the parlor;"--might as well kill both bird at once . kill ? the lord be merciful to his ghost ! what be that noise there ? you , young man , avast there ! "
and run up after i , she catch i as i be again try to force open the door .
" i do not allow it ; i will not have my premise spoil . go for the locksmith , there be one about a mile from here . but avast ! " put her hand in her side - pocket , " here be a key that will fit , i guess ; let us see . " and with that , she turn it in the lock ; but , alas ! queequeg 's supplemental bolt remain unwithdrawn within .
" have to burst it open , " say i , and be run down the entry a little , for a good start , when the landlady catch at i , again vow i should not break down her premise ; but i tear from she , and with a sudden bodily rush dash myself full against the mark .
with a prodigious noise the door fly open , and the knob slam against the wall , send the plaster to the ceiling ; and there , good heaven ! there sit queequeg , altogether cool and self - collect ; right in the middle of the room ; squat on his ham , and hold yojo on top of his head . he look neither one way nor the other way , but sit like a carve image with scarce a sign of active life .
" queequeg , " say i , go up to he , " queequeg , what be the matter with you ? "
" he hain't be a sittin ' so all day , have he ? " say the landlady .
but all we say , not a word could we drag out of he ; i almost feel like push he over , so as to change his position , for it be almost intolerable , it seem so painfully and unnaturally constrain ; especially , as in all probability he have be sit so for upwards of eight or ten hour , go too without his regular meal .
" mrs. hussey , " say i , " he be alive at all event ; so leave we , if you please , and i will see to this strange affair myself . "
close the door upon the landlady , i endeavor to prevail upon queequeg to take a chair ; but in vain . there he sit ; and all he could do -- for all my polite art and blandishment -- he would not move a peg , nor say a single word , nor even look at i , nor notice my presence in the slight way .
i wonder , think i , if this can possibly be a part of his ramadan ; do they fast on their ham that way in his native island . it must be so ; yes , it be part of his creed , i suppose ; well , then , let he rest ; he will get up soon or later , no doubt . it can not last for ever , thank god , and his ramadan only come once a year ; and i do not believe it be very punctual then .
i go down to supper . after sit a long time listen to the long story of some sailor who have just come from a plum - pudding voyage , as they call it ( that be , a short whaling - voyage in a schooner or brig , confine to the north of the line , in the atlantic ocean only ) ; after listen to these plum - puddinger till nearly eleven o'clock , i go up stair to go to bed , feel quite sure by this time queequeg must certainly have bring his ramadan to a termination . but no ; there he be just where i have leave he ; he have not stir an inch . i begin to grow vex with he ; it seem so downright senseless and insane to be sit there all day and half the night on his ham in a cold room , hold a piece of wood on his head .
" for heaven 's sake , queequeg , get up and shake yourself ; get up and have some supper . you will starve ; you will kill yourself , queequeg . " but not a word do he reply .
despair of he , therefore , i determine to go to bed and to sleep ; and no doubt , before a great while , he would follow i . but previous to turn in , i take my heavy bearskin jacket , and throw it over he , as it promise to be a very cold night ; and he have nothing but his ordinary round jacket on . for some time , do all i would , i could not get into the faint doze . i have blow out the candle ; and the mere thought of queequeg -- not four foot off -- sit there in that uneasy position , stark alone in the cold and dark ; this make i really wretched . think of it ; sleep all night in the same room with a wide awake pagan on his ham in this dreary , unaccountable ramadan !
but somehow i drop off at last , and know nothing more till break of day ; when , look over the bedside , there squat queequeg , as if he have be screw down to the floor . but as soon as the first glimpse of sun enter the window , up he get , with stiff and grating joint , but with a cheerful look ; limp towards i where i lay ; press his forehead again against mine ; and say his ramadan be over .
now , as i before hint , i have no objection to any person 's religion , be it what it may , so long as that person do not kill or insult any other person , because that other person do not believe it also . but when a man 's religion become really frantic ; when it be a positive torment to he ; and , in fine , make this earth of ours an uncomfortable inn to lodge in ; then i think it high time to take that individual aside and argue the point with he .
and just so i now do with queequeg . " queequeg , " say i , " get into bed now , and lie and listen to i . " i then go on , begin with the rise and progress of the primitive religion , and come down to the various religion of the present time , during which time i labor to show queequeg that all these lents , ramadans , and prolong ham - squatting in cold , cheerless room be stark nonsense ; bad for the health ; useless for the soul ; opposed , in short , to the obvious law of hygiene and common sense . i tell he , too , that he be in other thing such an extremely sensible and sagacious savage , it pain i , very badly pain i , to see he now so deplorably foolish about this ridiculous ramadan of his . besides , argue i , fast make the body cave in ; hence the spirit cave in ; and all thought bear of a fast must necessarily be half - starve . this be the reason why most dyspeptic religionist cherish such melancholy notion about their hereafter . in one word , queequeg , say i , rather digressively ; hell be an idea first bear on an undigested apple - dumpling ; and since then perpetuate through the hereditary dyspepsia nurture by ramadans .
i then ask queequeg whether he himself be ever trouble with dyspepsia ; express the idea very plainly , so that he could take it in . he say no ; only upon one memorable occasion . it be after a great feast give by his father the king , on the gaining of a great battle wherein fifty of the enemy have be kill by about two o'clock in the afternoon , and all cook and eat that very evening .
" no more , queequeg , " say i , shudder ; " that will do ; " for i know the inference without his further hint they . i have see a sailor who have visit that very island , and he tell i that it be the custom , when a great battle have be gain there , to barbecue all the slain in the yard or garden of the victor ; and then , one by one , they be place in great wooden trencher , and garnish round like a pilau , with breadfruit and cocoanut ; and with some parsley in their mouth , be send round with the victor 's compliment to all his friend , just as though these present be so many christmas turkey .
after all , i do not think that my remark about religion make much impression upon queequeg . because , in the first place , he somehow seem dull of hear on that important subject , unless consider from his own point of view ; and , in the second place , he do not more than one third understand i , couch my idea simply as i would ; and , finally , he no doubt think he know a good deal more about the true religion than i do . he look at i with a sort of condescend concern and compassion , as though he think it a great pity that such a sensible young man should be so hopelessly lose to evangelical pagan piety .
at last we rise and dress ; and queequeg , take a prodigiously hearty breakfast of chowder of all sort , so that the landlady should not make much profit by reason of his ramadan , we sally out to board the pequod , saunter along , and pick our tooth with halibut bone .
chapter 18
his mark .
as we be walk down the end of the wharf towards the ship , queequeg carry his harpoon , captain peleg in his gruff voice loudly hail we from his wigwam , say he have not suspect my friend be a cannibal , and furthermore announce that he let no cannibal on board that craft , unless they previously produce their paper .
" what do you mean by that , captain peleg ? " say i , now jump on the bulwark , and leave my comrade stand on the wharf .
" i mean , " he reply , " he must show his paper . "
" yes , " say captain bildad in his hollow voice , stick his head from behind peleg 's , out of the wigwam . " he must show that he be convert . son of darkness , " he add , turn to queequeg , " art thou at present in communion with any christian church ? "
" why , " say i , " he be a member of the first congregational church . " here be it say , that many tattooed savage sail in nantucket ship at last come to be convert into the church .
" first congregational church , " cry bildad , " what ! that worship in deacon deuteronomy coleman 's meeting - house ? " and so say , take out his spectacle , he rub they with his great yellow bandana handkerchief , and put they on very carefully , come out of the wigwam , and lean stiffly over the bulwark , take a good long look at queequeg .
" how long hath he be a member ? " he then say , turn to i ; " not very long , i rather guess , young man . "
" no , " say peleg , " and he have not be baptize right either , or it would have wash some of that devil 's blue off his face . "
" do tell , now , " cry bildad , " be this philistine a regular member of deacon deuteronomy 's meeting ? i never see he go there , and i pass it every lord 's day . "
" i do not know anything about deacon deuteronomy or his meeting , " say i ; " all i know be , that queequeg here be a bear member of the first congregational church . he be a deacon himself , queequeg be . "
" young man , " say bildad sternly , " thou art skylark with i -- explain thyself , thou young hittite . what church dost thee mean ? answer i . "
find myself thus hard push , i reply . " i mean , sir , the same ancient catholic church to which you and i , and captain peleg there , and queequeg here , and all of we , and every mother 's son and soul of we belong ; the great and everlaste first congregation of this whole worship world ; we all belong to that ; only some of we cherish some queer crotchet no way touch the grand belief ; in that we all join hand . "
" splice , thou mean'st splice hand , " cry peleg , draw nearer . " young man , you would well ship for a missionary , instead of a fore - mast hand ; i never hear a well sermon . deacon deuteronomy -- why father mapple himself could not beat it , and he be reckon something . come aboard , come aboard ; never mind about the paper . i say , tell quohog there -- what be that you call he ? tell quohog to step along . by the great anchor , what a harpoon he be get there ! look like good stuff that ; and he handle it about right . i say , quohog , or whatever your name be , do you ever stand in the head of a whale - boat ? do you ever strike a fish ? "
without say a word , queequeg , in his wild sort of way , jump upon the bulwark , from thence into the bow of one of the whale - boat hang to the side ; and then brace his left knee , and poise his harpoon , cry out in some such way as this:--
" cap'ain , you see he small drop tar on water dere ? you see he ? well , spose he one whale eye , well , den ! " and take sharp aim at it , he dart the iron right over old bildad 's broad brim , clean across the ship 's deck , and strike the glistening tar spot out of sight .
" now , " say queequeg , quietly haul in the line , " spos - ee he whale - e eye ; why , dad whale dead . "
" quick , bildad , " say peleg , his partner , who , aghast at the close vicinity of the fly harpoon , have retreat towards the cabin gangway . " quick , i say , you bildad , and get the ship 's paper . we must have hedgehog there , i mean quohog , in one of our boat . look ye , quohog , we will give ye the ninetieth lay , and that be more than ever be give a harpooneer yet out of nantucket . "
so down we go into the cabin , and to my great joy queequeg be soon enrol among the same ship 's company to which i myself belong .
when all preliminary be over and peleg have get everything ready for signing , he turn to i and say , " i guess , quohog there do not know how to write , do he ? i say , quohog , blast ye ! dost thou sign thy name or make thy mark ?
but at this question , queequeg , who have twice or thrice before take part in similar ceremony , look no way abash ; but take the offer pen , copy upon the paper , in the proper place , an exact counterpart of a queer round figure which be tattoo upon his arm ; so that through captain peleg 's obstinate mistake touch his appellative , it stand something like this:--
quohog . his x mark .
meanwhile captain bildad sit earnestly and steadfastly eye queequeg , and at last rise solemnly and fumble in the huge pocket of his broad - skirt drab coat , take out a bundle of tract , and select one entitle " the latter day come ; or no time to lose , " place it in queequeg 's hand , and then grasp they and the book with both his , look earnestly into his eye , and say , " son of darkness , i must do my duty by thee ; i be part owner of this ship , and feel concerned for the soul of all its crew ; if thou still clingest to thy pagan way , which i sadly fear , i beseech thee , remain not for aye a belial bondsman . spurn the idol bell , and the hideous dragon ; turn from the wrath to come ; mind thine eye , i say ; oh ! goodness gracious ! steer clear of the fiery pit ! "
something of the salt sea yet linger in old bildad 's language , heterogeneously mixed with scriptural and domestic phrase .
" avast there , avast there , bildad , avast now spoil our harpooneer , " peleg . " pious harpooneer never make good voyager -- it take the shark out of them ; no harpooneer be worth a straw who be not pretty sharkish . there be young nat swaine , once the brave boat - header out of all nantucket and the vineyard ; he join the meeting , and never come to good . he get so frightened about his plaguy soul , that he shrink and sheer away from whale , for fear of after - clap , in case he get stove and go to davy jones . "
" peleg ! peleg ! " say bildad , lift his eye and hand , " thou thyself , as i myself , hast see many a perilous time ; thou know , peleg , what it be to have the fear of death ; how , then , can'st thou prate in this ungodly guise . thou beli thine own heart , peleg . tell i , when this same pequod here have her three mast overboard in that typhoon on japan , that same voyage when thou go mate with captain ahab , did'st thou not think of death and the judgment then ? "
" hear he , hear he now , " cry peleg , march across the cabin , and thrust his hand far down into his pockets,--"hear he , all of ye . think of that ! when every moment we think the ship would sink ! death and the judgment then ? what ? with all three mast make such an everlasting thundering against the side ; and every sea break over we , fore and aft . think of death and the judgment then ? no ! no time to think about death then . life be what captain ahab and i be think of ; and how to save all hand -- how to rig jury - mast -- how to get into the near port ; that be what i be think of . "
bildad say no more , but button up his coat , stalk on deck , where we follow he . there he stand , very quietly overlook some sailmaker who be mend a top - sail in the waist . now and then he stoop to pick up a patch , or save an end of tarred twine , which otherwise might have be waste .
chapter 19
the prophet .
" shipmate , have ye ship in that ship ? "
queequeg and i have just leave the pequod , and be saunter away from the water , for the moment each occupy with his own thought , when the above word be put to we by a stranger , who , pause before we , level his massive forefinger at the vessel in question . he be but shabbily apparelle in fade jacket and patched trowser ; a rag of a black handkerchief invest his neck . a confluent small - pox have in all direction flow over his face , and leave it like the complicated rib bed of a torrent , when the rushing water have be dry up .
" have ye ship in she ? " he repeat .
" you mean the ship pequod , i suppose , " say i , try to gain a little more time for an uninterrupted look at he .
" aye , the pequod -- that ship there , " he say , draw back his whole arm , and then rapidly shove it straight out from he , with the fix bayonet of his pointed finger dart full at the object .
" yes , " say i , " we have just sign the article . "
" anything down there about your soul ? "
" about what ? "
" oh , perhaps you hav'n't get any , " he say quickly . " no matter though , i know many chap that hav'n't get any,--good luck to them ; and they be all the well off for it . a soul 's a sort of a fifth wheel to a wagon . "
" what be you jabber about , shipmate ? " say i.
" he be get enough , though , to make up for all deficiency of that sort in other chap , " abruptly say the stranger , place a nervous emphasis upon the word he .
" queequeg , " say i , " let us go ; this fellow have break loose from somewhere ; he be talk about something and somebody we do not know . "
" stop ! " cry the stranger . " ye say true -- ye hav'n't see old thunder yet , have ye ? "
" who be old thunder ? " say i , again rivet with the insane earnestness of his manner .
" captain ahab . "
" what ! the captain of our ship , the pequod ? "
" aye , among some of us old sailor chap , he go by that name . ye hav'n't see he yet , have ye ? "
" no , we hav'n't . he be sick they say , but be get well , and will be all right again before long . "
" all right again before long ! " laugh the stranger , with a solemnly derisive sort of laugh . " look ye ; when captain ahab be all right , then this left arm of mine will be all right ; not before . "
" what do you know about he ? "
" what do they tell you about he ? say that ! "
" they do not tell much of anything about he ; only i have hear that he be a good whale - hunter , and a good captain to his crew . "
" that be true , that be true -- yes , both true enough . but you must jump when he give an order . step and growl ; growl and go -- that be the word with captain ahab . but nothing about that thing that happen to he off cape horn , long ago , when he lie like dead for three day and night ; nothing about that deadly skrimmage with the spaniard afore the altar in santa?--heard nothing about that , eh ? nothing about the silver calabash he spit into ? and nothing about his lose his leg last voyage , accord to the prophecy . do not ye hear a word about they matter and something more , eh ? no , i do not think ye do ; how could ye ? who know it ? not all nantucket , i guess . but hows'ever , mayhap , ye've hear tell about the leg , and how he lose it ; aye , ye have hear of that , i dare say . oh yes , that every one know a'most -- i mean they know he be only one leg ; and that a parmacetti take the other off . "
" my friend , " say i , " what all this gibberish of yours be about , i do not know , and i do not much care ; for it seem to i that you must be a little damaged in the head . but if you be speak of captain ahab , of that ship there , the pequod , then let i tell you , that i know all about the loss of his leg . "
" all about it , eh -- sure you do?--all ? "
" pretty sure . "
with finger point and eye level at the pequod , the beggar - like stranger stand a moment , as if in a troubled reverie ; then start a little , turn and said:--"ye've ship , have ye ? name down on the paper ? well , well , what be sign , be sign ; and what be to be , will be ; and then again , perhaps it will not be , after all . anyhow , it be all fix and arrange a'ready ; and some sailor or other must go with he , i suppose ; as well these as any other man , god pity them ! morning to ye , shipmate , morning ; the ineffable heavens bless ye ; i be sorry i stop ye . "
" look here , friend , " say i , " if you have anything important to tell we , out with it ; but if you be only try to bamboozle we , you be mistaken in your game ; that be all i have to say . "
" and it be say very well , and i like to hear a chap talk up that way ; you be just the man for he -- the like of ye . morning to ye , shipmate , morning ! oh ! when ye get there , tell them i have conclude not to make one of them . "
" ah , my dear fellow , you can not fool we that way -- you can not fool we . it be the easy thing in the world for a man to look as if he have a great secret in he . "
" morning to ye , shipmate , morning . "
" morning it be , " say i. " come along , queequeg , let us leave this crazy man . but stop , tell i your name , will you ? "
" elijah . "
elijah ! think i , and we walk away , both comment , after each other 's fashion , upon this ragged old sailor ; and agree that he be nothing but a humbug , try to be a bugbear . but we have not go perhaps above a hundred yard , when chance to turn a corner , and look back as i do so , who should be see but elijah follow we , though at a distance . somehow , the sight of he strike i so , that i say nothing to queequeg of his be behind , but pass on with my comrade , anxious to see whether the stranger would turn the same corner that we do . he do ; and then it seem to i that he be dog we , but with what intent i could not for the life of i imagine . this circumstance , couple with his ambiguous , half - hint , half - reveal , shrouded sort of talk , now begat in i all kind of vague wonderment and half - apprehension , and all connect with the pequod ; and captain ahab ; and the leg he have lose ; and the cape horn fit ; and the silver calabash ; and what captain peleg have say of he , when i leave the ship the day previous ; and the prediction of the squaw tistig ; and the voyage we have bind ourselves to sail ; and a hundred other shadowy thing .
i be resolve to satisfy myself whether this rag elijah be really dog we or not , and with that intent cross the way with queequeg , and on that side of it retrace our step . but elijah pass on , without seem to notice we . this relieve i ; and once more , and finally as it seem to i , i pronounce he in my heart , a humbug .
chapter 20
all astir .
a day or two pass , and there be great activity aboard the pequod . not only be the old sail be mend , but new sail be come on board , and bolt of canvas , and coil of rigging ; in short , everything betoken that the ship 's preparation be hurry to a close . captain peleg seldom or never go ashore , but sit in his wigwam keep a sharp look - out upon the hand : bildad do all the purchasing and provide at the store ; and the man employ in the hold and on the rigging be work till long after night - fall .
on the day follow queequeg 's sign the article , word be give at all the inn where the ship 's company be stop , that their chest must be on board before night , for there be no telling how soon the vessel might be sail . so queequeg and i get down our trap , resolve , however , to sleep ashore till the last . but it seem they always give very long notice in these case , and the ship do not sail for several day . but no wonder ; there be a good deal to be do , and there be no telling how many thing to be think of , before the pequod be fully equip .
every one know what a multitude of thing -- bed , sauce - pan , knife and fork , shovel and tong , napkin , nut - cracker , and what not , be indispensable to the business of housekeeping . just so with whaling , which necessitate a three - year ' housekeeping upon the wide ocean , far from all grocer , costermonger , doctor , baker , and banker . and though this also hold true of merchant vessel , yet not by any mean to the same extent as with whaleman . for besides the great length of the whale voyage , the numerous article peculiar to the prosecution of the fishery , and the impossibility of replace they at the remote harbor usually frequent , it must be remember , that of all ship , whale vessel be the most expose to accident of all kind , and especially to the destruction and loss of the very thing upon which the success of the voyage most depend . hence , the spare boat , spare spar , and spare line and harpoon , and spare everything , almost , but a spare captain and duplicate ship .
at the period of our arrival at the island , the heavy storage of the pequod have be almost complete ; comprise her beef , bread , water , fuel , and iron hoop and stave . but , as before hint , for some time there be a continual fetching and carry on board of diver odd and end of thing , both large and small .
chief among those who do this fetching and carrying be captain bildad 's sister , a lean old lady of a most determined and indefatigable spirit , but withal very kindhearte , who seemed resolve that , if she could help it , nothing should be find want in the pequod , after once fairly get to sea . at one time she would come on board with a jar of pickle for the steward 's pantry ; another time with a bunch of quill for the chief mate 's desk , where he keep his log ; a third time with a roll of flannel for the small of some one 's rheumatic back . never do any woman well deserve her name , which be charity -- aunt charity , as everybody call she . and like a sister of charity do this charitable aunt charity bustle about hither and thither , ready to turn her hand and heart to anything that promise to yield safety , comfort , and consolation to all on board a ship in which her beloved brother bildad be concern , and in which she herself own a score or two of well - save dollar .
but it be startling to see this excellent hearted quakeress come on board , as she do the last day , with a long oil - ladle in one hand , and a still long whale lance in the other . nor be bildad himself nor captain peleg at all backward . as for bildad , he carry about with he a long list of the article need , and at every fresh arrival , down go his mark opposite that article upon the paper . every once in a while peleg came hobble out of his whalebone den , roar at the man down the hatchway , roar up to the rigger at the mast - head , and then conclude by roar back into his wigwam .
during these day of preparation , queequeg and i often visit the craft , and as often i ask about captain ahab , and how he be , and when he be go to come on board his ship . to these question they would answer , that he be get well and well , and be expect aboard every day ; meantime , the two captain , peleg and bildad , could attend to everything necessary to fit the vessel for the voyage . if i have be downright honest with myself , i would have see very plainly in my heart that i do but half fancy be commit this way to so long a voyage , without once lay my eye on the man who be to be the absolute dictator of it , so soon as the ship sail out upon the open sea . but when a man suspect any wrong , it sometimes happen that if he be already involve in the matter , he insensibly strive to cover up his suspicion even from himself . and much this way it be with i . i say nothing , and try to think nothing .
at last it be give out that some time next day the ship would certainly sail . so next morning , queequeg and i take a very early start .
chapter 21
go aboard .
it be nearly six o'clock , but only grey imperfect misty dawn , when we draw nigh the wharf .
" there be some sailor run ahead there , if i see right , " say i to queequeg , " it can not be shadow ; she be off by sunrise , i guess ; come on ! "
" avast ! " cry a voice , whose owner at the same time come close behind we , lay a hand upon both our shoulder , and then insinuate himself between we , stand stoop forward a little , in the uncertain twilight , strangely peer from queequeg to i . it be elijah .
" go aboard ? "
" hand off , will you , " say i.
" lookee here , " say queequeg , shake himself , " go ' way ! "
" ai not go aboard , then ? "
" yes , we be , " say i , " but what business be that of your ? do you know , mr. elijah , that i consider you a little impertinent ? "
" no , no , no ; i be not aware of that , " say elijah , slowly and wonderingly look from i to queequeg , with the most unaccountable glance .
" elijah , " say i , " you will oblige my friend and i by withdraw . we be go to the indian and pacific oceans , and would prefer not to be detain . "
" ye be , be ye ? come back afore breakfast ? "
" he be crack , queequeg , " say i , " come on . "
" holloa ! " cry stationary elijah , hail we when we have remove a few pace .
" never mind he , " say i , " queequeg , come on . "
but he steal up to we again , and suddenly clap his hand on my shoulder , said--"did ye see anything look like man go towards that ship a while ago ? "
strike by this plain matter - of - fact question , i answer , say , " yes , i think i do see four or five man ; but it be too dim to be sure . "
" very dim , very dim , " say elijah . " morning to ye . "
once more we quit he ; but once more he come softly after we ; and touch my shoulder again , say , " see if you can find them now , will ye ?
" find who ? "
" morning to ye ! morning to ye ! " he rejoin , again move off . " oh ! i be go to warn ye against -- but never mind , never mind -- it be all one , all in the family too;--sharp frost this morning , be not it ? good - bye to ye . shall not see ye again very soon , i guess ; unless it be before the grand jury . " and with these crack word he finally depart , leave i , for the moment , in no small wonderment at his frantic impudence .
at last , step on board the pequod , we find everything in profound quiet , not a soul move . the cabin entrance be lock within ; the hatch be all on , and lumber with coil of rig . go forward to the forecastle , we find the slide of the scuttle open . see a light , we go down , and find only an old rigger there , wrap in a tattered pea - jacket . he be throw at whole length upon two chest , his face downward and inclose in his fold arm . the profound slumber sleep upon he .
" those sailor we see , queequeg , where can they have go to ? " say i , look dubiously at the sleeper . but it seem that , when on the wharf , queequeg have not at all notice what i now allude to ; hence i would have think myself to have be optically deceive in that matter , be it not for elijah 's otherwise inexplicable question . but i beat the thing down ; and again mark the sleeper , jocularly hint to queequeg that perhaps we have well sit up with the body ; tell he to establish himself accordingly . he put his hand upon the sleeper 's rear , as though feeling if it be soft enough ; and then , without more ado , sit quietly down there .
" gracious ! queequeg , do not sit there , " say i.
" oh ! perry dood seat , " say queequeg , " my country way ; will not hurt he face . "
" face ! " say i , " call that his face ? very benevolent countenance then ; but how hard he breathe , he be heave himself ; get off , queequeg , you be heavy , it be grind the face of the poor . get off , queequeg ! look , he will twitch you off soon . i wonder he do not wake . "
queequeg remove himself to just beyond the head of the sleeper , and light his tomahawk pipe . i sit at the foot . we keep the pipe pass over the sleeper , from one to the other . meanwhile , upon question he in his broken fashion , queequeg give i to understand that , in his land , owe to the absence of settee and sofa of all sort , the king , chief , and great people generally , be in the custom of fatten some of the low order for othman ; and to furnish a house comfortably in that respect , you have only to buy up eight or ten lazy fellow , and lie they round in the pier and alcove . besides , it be very convenient on an excursion ; much well than those garden - chair which be convertible into walking - stick ; upon occasion , a chief call his attendant , and desire he to make a settee of himself under a spread tree , perhaps in some damp marshy place .
while narrate these thing , every time queequeg receive the tomahawk from i , he flourish the hatchet - side of it over the sleeper 's head .
" what be that for , queequeg ? "
" perry easy , kill - e ; oh ! perry easy !
he be go on with some wild reminiscence about his tomahawk - pipe , which , it seem , have in its two us both brain his foe and soothe his soul , when we be directly attract to the sleep rigger . the strong vapour now completely fill the contract hole , it begin to tell upon he . he breathe with a sort of muffledness ; then seem troubled in the nose ; then revolve over once or twice ; then sit up and rub his eye .
" holloa ! " he breathe at last , " who be ye smoker ? "
" ship man , " answer i , " when do she sail ? "
" aye , aye , ye be go in she , be ye ? she sail to - day . the captain come aboard last night . "
" what captain?--ahab ? "
" who but he indeed ? "
i be go to ask he some further question concern ahab , when we hear a noise on deck .
" holloa ! starbuck 's astir , " say the rigger . " he be a lively chief mate , that ; good man , and a pious ; but all alive now , i must turn to . " and so say he go on deck , and we follow .
it be now clear sunrise . soon the crew come on board in two and three ; the rigger bestir themselves ; the mate be actively engage ; and several of the shore people be busy in bring various last thing on board . meanwhile captain ahab remain invisibly enshrine within his cabin .
chapter 22
merry christmas .
at length , towards noon , upon the final dismissal of the ship 's rigger , and after the pequod have be haul out from the wharf , and after the ever - thoughtful charity have come off in a whale - boat , with her last gift -- a night - cap for stubb , the second mate , her brother - in - law , and a spare bible for the steward -- after all this , the two captain , peleg and bildad , issue from the cabin , and turn to the chief mate , peleg say :
" now , mr. starbuck , be you sure everything be right ? captain ahab be all ready -- just speak to he -- nothing more to be get from shore , eh ? well , call all hand , then . muster them aft here -- blast them ! "
" no need of profane word , however great the hurry , peleg , " say bildad , " but away with thee , friend starbuck , and do our bidding . "
how now ! here upon the very point of start for the voyage , captain peleg and captain bildad be go it with a high hand on the quarter - deck , just as if they be to be joint - commander at sea , as well as to all appearance in port . and , as for captain ahab , no sign of he be yet to be see ; only , they say he be in the cabin . but then , the idea be , that his presence be by no mean necessary in get the ship under weigh , and steer she well out to sea . indeed , as that be not at all his proper business , but the pilot 's ; and as he be not yet completely recover -- so they say -- therefore , captain ahab stay below . and all this seem natural enough ; especially as in the merchant service many captain never show themselves on deck for a considerable time after heave up the anchor , but remain over the cabin table , have a farewell merry - making with their shore friend , before they quit the ship for good with the pilot .
but there be not much chance to think over the matter , for captain peleg be now all alive . he seem to do most of the talking and commanding , and not bildad .
" aft here , ye son of bachelor , " he cry , as the sailor linger at the main - mast . " mr. starbuck , drive'em aft . "
" strike the tent there!"--wa the next order . as i hint before , this whalebone marquee be never pitch except in port ; and on board the pequod , for thirty year , the order to strike the tent be well know to be the next thing to heave up the anchor .
" man the capstan ! blood and thunder!--jump!"--wa the next command , and the crew spring for the handspike .
now in get under weigh , the station generally occupy by the pilot be the forward part of the ship . and here bildad , who , with peleg , be it know , in addition to his other officer , be one of the licensed pilot of the port -- he be suspect to have get himself make a pilot in order to save the nantucket pilot - fee to all the ship he be concern in , for he never pilot any other craft -- bildad , i say , might now be see actively engage in look over the bow for the approach anchor , and at interval sing what seem a dismal stave of psalmody , to cheer the hand at the windlass , who roar forth some sort of a chorus about the girl in booble alley , with hearty good will . nevertheless , not three day previous , bildad have tell they that no profane song would be allow on board the pequod , particularly in get under weigh ; and charity , his sister , have place a small choice copy of watts in each seaman 's berth .
meantime , oversee the other part of the ship , captain peleg rip and swear astern in the most frightful manner . i almost think he would sink the ship before the anchor could be get up ; involuntarily i pause on my handspike , and tell queequeg to do the same , think of the peril we both run , in start on the voyage with such a devil for a pilot . i be comfort myself , however , with the thought that in pious bildad might be find some salvation , spite of his seven hundred and seventy - seventh lay ; when i feel a sudden sharp poke in my rear , and turn round , be horrify at the apparition of captain peleg in the act of withdraw his leg from my immediate vicinity . that be my first kick .
" be that the way they heave in the marchant service ? " he roar . " spring , thou sheep - head ; spring , and break thy backbone ! why do not ye spring , i say , all of ye -- spring ! quohog ! spring , thou chap with the red whisker ; spring there , scotch - cap ; spring , thou green pant . spring , i say , all of ye , and spring your eye out ! " and so say , he move along the windlass , here and there use his leg very freely , while imperturbable bildad keep lead off with his psalmody . think i , captain peleg must have be drink something to - day .
at last the anchor be up , the sail be set , and off we glide . it be a short , cold christmas ; and as the short northern day merge into night , we find ourselves almost broad upon the wintry ocean , whose freeze spray case we in ice , as in polished armor . the long row of tooth on the bulwark glisten in the moonlight ; and like the white ivory tusk of some huge elephant , vast curve icicle depend from the bow .
lank bildad , as pilot , head the first watch , and ever and anon , as the old craft deep dive into the green sea , and send the shiver frost all over she , and the wind howl , and the cordage rang , his steady note be heard,--
" sweet field beyond the swell flood , stand dress in live green . so to the jews old canaan stand , while jordan roll between . "
never do those sweet word sound more sweetly to i than then . they be full of hope and fruition . spite of this frigid winter night in the boisterous atlantic , spite of my wet foot and wetter jacket , there be yet , it then seem to i , many a pleasant haven in store ; and mead and glade so eternally vernal , that the grass shoot up by the spring , untrodden , unwilted , remain at midsummer .
at last we gain such an offing , that the two pilot be need no long . the stout sail - boat that have accompany we begin range alongside .
it be curious and not unpleasing , how peleg and bildad be affect at this juncture , especially captain bildad . for loath to depart , yet ; very loath to leave , for good , a ship bind on so long and perilous a voyage -- beyond both stormy capes ; a ship in which some thousand of his hard earn dollar be invest ; a ship , in which an old shipmate sail as captain ; a man almost as old as he , once more start to encounter all the terror of the pitiless jaw ; loath to say good - bye to a thing so every way brimful of every interest to him,--poor old bildad linger long ; pace the deck with anxious stride ; run down into the cabin to speak another farewell word there ; again come on deck , and look to windward ; look towards the wide and endless water , only bound by the far - off unseen eastern continents ; look towards the land ; look aloft ; look right and left ; look everywhere and nowhere ; and at last , mechanically coil a rope upon its pin , convulsively grasp stout peleg by the hand , and hold up a lantern , for a moment stand gaze heroically in his face , as much as to say , " nevertheless , friend peleg , i can stand it ; yes , i can . "
as for peleg himself , he take it more like a philosopher ; but for all his philosophy , there be a tear twinkling in his eye , when the lantern come too near . and he , too , do not a little run from cabin to deck -- now a word below , and now a word with starbuck , the chief mate .
but , at last , he turn to his comrade , with a final sort of look about him,--"captain bildad -- come , old shipmate , we must go . back the main - yard there ! boat ahoy ! stand by to come close alongside , now ! careful , careful!--come , bildad , boy -- say your last . luck to ye , starbuck -- luck to ye , mr. stubb -- luck to ye , mr. flask -- good - bye and good luck to ye all -- and this day three year i will have a hot supper smoking for ye in old nantucket . hurrah and away ! "
" god bless ye , and have ye in his holy keeping , man , " murmur old bildad , almost incoherently . " i hope ye'll have fine weather now , so that captain ahab may soon be move among ye -- a pleasant sun be all he need , and ye'll have plenty of they in the tropic voyage ye go . be careful in the hunt , ye mate . do not stave the boat needlessly , ye harpooneer ; good white cedar plank be raise full three per cent . within the year . do not forget your prayer , either . mr. starbuck , mind that cooper do not waste the spare stave . oh ! the sail - needle be in the green locker ! do not whale it too much a ' lord 's day , man ; but do not miss a fair chance either , that be reject heaven 's good gift . have an eye to the molasse tierce , mr. stubb ; it be a little leaky , i think . if ye touch at the island , mr. flask , beware of fornication . good - bye , good - bye ! do not keep that cheese too long down in the hold , mr. starbuck ; it will spoil . be careful with the butter -- twenty cent the pound it be , and mind ye , if-- "
" come , come , captain bildad ; stop palavering,--away ! " and with that , peleg hurry he over the side , and both dropt into the boat .
ship and boat diverge ; the cold , damp night breeze blow between ; a scream gull fly overhead ; the two hull wildly roll ; we give three heavy - hearted cheer , and blindly plunge like fate into the lone atlantic .
chapter 23
the lee shore .
some chapter back , one bulkington be speak of , a tall , newlande mariner , encounter in new bedford at the inn .
when on that shiver winter 's night , the pequod thrust her vindictive bow into the cold malicious wave , who should i see stand at her helm but bulkington ! i look with sympathetic awe and fearfulness upon the man , who in mid - winter just land from a four year ' dangerous voyage , could so unrestingly push off again for still another tempestuous term . the land seem scorch to his foot . wonderfull thing be ever the unmentionable ; deep memory yield no epitaph ; this six - inch chapter be the stoneless grave of bulkington . let i only say that it fare with he as with the storm - toss ship , that miserably drive along the leeward land . the port would fain give succor ; the port be pitiful ; in the port be safety , comfort , hearthstone , supper , warm blanket , friend , all that be kind to our mortality . but in that gale , the port , the land , be that ship 's dire jeopardy ; she must fly all hospitality ; one touch of land , though it but graze the keel , would make her shudder through and through . with all her might she crowd all sail off shore ; in so do , fight ' gainst the very wind that fain would blow her homeward ; seek all the lashed sea 's landlessness again ; for refuge 's sake forlornly rush into peril ; her only friend her bitter foe !
know ye now , bulkington ? glimpse do ye seem to see of that mortally intolerable truth ; that all deep , earnest thinking be but the intrepid effort of the soul to keep the open independence of her sea ; while the wild wind of heaven and earth conspire to cast she on the treacherous , slavish shore ?
but as in landlessness alone reside high truth , shoreless , indefinite as god -- so , well be it to perish in that howl infinite , than be ingloriously dash upon the lee , even if that be safety ! for worm - like , then , oh ! who would craven crawl to land ! terror of the terrible ! be all this agony so vain ? take heart , take heart , o bulkington ! bear thee grimly , demigod ! up from the spray of thy ocean - perish -- straight up , leap thy apotheosis !
chapter 24
the advocate .
as queequeg and i be now fairly embark in this business of whaling ; and as this business of whaling have somehow come to be regard among landsman as a rather unpoetical and disreputable pursuit ; therefore , i be all anxiety to convince ye , ye landsman , of the injustice hereby do to us hunter of whale .
in the first place , it may be deem almost superfluous to establish the fact , that among people at large , the business of whaling be not account on a level with what be call the liberal profession . if a stranger be introduce into any miscellaneous metropolitan society , it would but slightly advance the general opinion of his merit , be he present to the company as a harpooneer , say ; and if in emulation of the naval officer he should append the initial s.w.f. ( sperm whale fishery ) to his visit card , such a procedure would be deem pre - eminently presuming and ridiculous .
doubtless one lead reason why the world decline honour we whaleman , be this : they think that , at well , our vocation amount to a butchering sort of business ; and that when actively engage therein , we be surround by all manner of defilement . butcher we be , that be true . but butcher , also , and butcher of the bloodiest badge have be all martial commanders whom the world invariably delight to honour . and as for the matter of the alleged uncleanliness of our business , ye shall soon be initiate into certain fact hitherto pretty generally unknown , and which , upon the whole , will triumphantly plant the sperm whale - ship at least among the cleanly thing of this tidy earth . but even grant the charge in question to be true ; what disorder slippery deck of a whale - ship be comparable to the unspeakable carrion of those battle - field from which so many soldier return to drink in all lady ' plaudit ? and if the idea of peril so much enhance the popular conceit of the soldier 's profession ; let i assure ye that many a veteran who have freely march up to a battery , would quickly recoil at the apparition of the sperm whale 's vast tail , fan into eddy the air over his head . for what be the comprehensible terror of man compare with the interlinked terror and wonder of god !
but , though the world scout at us whale hunter , yet do it unwittingly pay we the profound homage ; yea , an all - abound adoration ! for almost all the taper , lamp , and candle that burn round the globe , burn , as before so many shrine , to our glory !
but look at this matter in other light ; weigh it in all sort of scale ; see what we whaleman be , and have be .
why do the dutch in de witt 's time have admiral of their whale fleet ? why do louis xvi . of france , at his own personal expense , fit out whale ship from dunkirk , and politely invite to that town some score or two of family from our own island of nantucket ? why do britain between the year 1750 and 1788 pay to her whaleman in bounty upwards of l1,000,000 ? and lastly , how come it that we whaleman of america now outnumber all the rest of the band whaleman in the world ; sail a navy of upwards of seven hundred vessel ; man by eighteen thousand man ; yearly consume 4,000,000 of dollar ; the ship worth , at the time of sailing , $ 20,000,000 ! and every year import into our harbor a well reap harvest of $ 7,000,000 . how come all this , if there be not something puissant in whale ?
but this be not the half ; look again .
i freely assert , that the cosmopolite philosopher can not , for his life , point out one single peaceful influence , which within the last sixty year have operate more potentially upon the whole broad world , take in one aggregate , than the high and mighty business of whaling . one way and another , it have beget event so remarkable in themselves , and so continuously momentous in their sequential issue , that whaling may well be regard as that egyptian mother , who bear offspring themselves pregnant from her womb . it would be a hopeless , endless task to catalogue all these thing . let a handful suffice . for many year past the whale - ship have be the pioneer in ferret out the remotest and least known part of the earth . she have explore sea and archipelago which have no chart , where no cook or vancouver have ever sail . if american and european man - of - war now peacefully ride in once savage harbor , let they fire salute to the honour and glory of the whale - ship , which originally show they the way , and first interpret between they and the savage . they may celebrate as they will the hero of exploring expeditions , your cook , your krusensterns ; but i say that score of anonymous captains have sail out of nantucket , that be as great , and great than your cook and your krusenstern . for in their succourless empty - handedness , they , in the heathenish shark water , and by the beach of unrecorded , javelin island , battle with virgin wonder and terror that cook with all his marine and musket would not willingly have dare . all that be make such a flourish of in the old south sea voyages , those thing be but the life - time commonplace of our heroic nantucketers . often , adventure which vancouver dedicate three chapter to , these man account unworthy of be set down in the ship 's common log . ah , the world ! oh , the world !
until the whale fishery round cape horn , no commerce but colonial , scarcely any intercourse but colonial , be carry on between europe and the long line of the opulent spanish province on the pacific coast . it be the whaleman who first break through the jealous policy of the spanish crown , touch those colony ; and , if space permit , it might be distinctly show how from those whaleman at last eventuate the liberation of peru , chili , and bolivia from the yoke of old spain , and the establishment of the eternal democracy in those part .
that great america on the other side of the sphere , australia , be give to the enlightened world by the whaleman . after its first blunder - bear discovery by a dutchman , all other ship long shun those shore as pestiferously barbarous ; but the whale - ship touch there . the whale - ship be the true mother of that now mighty colony . moreover , in the infancy of the first australian settlement , the emigrant be several time save from starvation by the benevolent biscuit of the whale - ship luckily drop an anchor in their water . the uncounted isle of all polynesia confess the same truth , and do commercial homage to the whale - ship , that clear the way for the missionary and the merchant , and in many case carry the primitive missionary to their first destination . if that double - bolt land , japan , be ever to become hospitable , it be the whale - ship alone to whom the credit will be due ; for already she be on the threshold .
but if , in the face of all this , you still declare that whaling have no aesthetically noble association connect with it , then be i ready to shiver fifty lance with you there , and unhorse you with a split helmet every time .
the whale have no famous author , and whale no famous chronicler , you will say .
the whale no famous author , and whale no famous chronicler ? who write the first account of our leviathan ? who but mighty job ! and who compose the first narrative of a whaling - voyage ? who , but no less a prince than alfred the great , who , with his own royal pen , take down the word from other , the norwegian whale - hunter of those time ! and who pronounce our glow eulogy in parliament ? who , but edmund burke !
true enough , but then whalemen themselves be poor devil ; they have no good blood in their vein .
no good blood in their vein ? they have something well than royal blood there . the grandmother of benjamin franklin be mary morrel ; afterwards , by marriage , mary folger , one of the old settler of nantucket , and the ancestress to a long line of folgers and harpooneer -- all kith and kin to noble benjamin -- this day dart the barbed iron from one side of the world to the other .
good again ; but then all confess that somehow whale be not respectable .
whale not respectable ? whale be imperial ! by old english statutory law , the whale be declare " a royal fish . " *
oh , that be only nominal ! the whale himself have never figure in any grand imposing way .
the whale never figure in any grand imposing way ? in one of the mighty triumph give to a roman general upon his enter the world 's capital , the bone of a whale , bring all the way from the syrian coast , be the most conspicuous object in the cymballe procession . *
* see subsequent chapter for something more on this head .
grant it , since you cite it ; but , say what you will , there be no real dignity in whaling .
no dignity in whaling ? the dignity of our call the very heaven attest . cetus be a constellation in the south ! no more ! drive down your hat in presence of the czar , and take it off to queequeg ! no more ! i know a man that , in his lifetime , have take three hundred and fifty whale . i account that man more honourable than that great captain of antiquity who boast of take as many walled town .
and , as for i , if , by any possibility , there be any as yet undiscovered prime thing in i ; if i shall ever deserve any real repute in that small but high hushed world which i might not be unreasonably ambitious of ; if hereafter i shall do anything that , upon the whole , a man might rather have do than to have leave undo ; if , at my death , my executor , or more properly my creditor , find any precious mss . in my desk , then here i prospectively ascribe all the honour and the glory to whaling ; for a whale - ship be my yale college and my harvard .
chapter 25
postscript .
in behalf of the dignity of whaling , i would fain advance naught but substantiate fact . but after embattle his fact , an advocate who should wholly suppress a not unreasonable surmise , which might tell eloquently upon his cause -- such an advocate , would he not be blameworthy ?
it be well know that at the coronation of king and queen , even modern one , a certain curious process of season they for their function be go through . there be a saltcellar of state , so call , and there may be a castor of state . how they use the salt , precisely -- who know ? certain i be , however , that a king 's head be solemnly oil at his coronation , even as a head of salad . can it be , though , that they anoint it with a view of make its interior run well , as they anoint machinery ? much might be ruminate here , concern the essential dignity of this regal process , because in common life we esteem but meanly and contemptibly a fellow who anoint his hair , and palpably smell of that anointing . in truth , a mature man who use hair - oil , unless medicinally , that man have probably get a quoggy spot in he somewhere . as a general rule , he can not amount to much in his totality .
but the only thing to be consider here , be this -- what kind of oil be use at coronation ? certainly it can not be olive oil , nor macassar oil , nor castor oil , nor bear 's oil , nor train oil , nor cod - liver oil . what then can it possibly be , but sperm oil in its unmanufactured , unpolluted state , the sweetest of all oil ?
think of that , ye loyal britons ! we whalemen supply your king and queen with coronation stuff !
chapter 26
knights and squires .
the chief mate of the pequod be starbuck , a native of nantucket , and a quaker by descent . he be a long , earnest man , and though bear on an icy coast , seem well adapt to endure hot latitude , his flesh be hard as twice - bake biscuit . transport to the indies , his live blood would not spoil like bottled ale . he must have be bear in some time of general drought and famine , or upon one of those fast day for which his state be famous . only some thirty arid summer have he see ; those summer have dry up all his physical superfluousness . but this , his thinness , so to speak , seem no more the token of waste anxiety and care , than it seem the indication of any bodily blight . it be merely the condensation of the man . he be by no means ill - look ; quite the contrary . his pure tight skin be an excellent fit ; and closely wrap up in it , and embalm with inner health and strength , like a revivify egyptian , this starbuck seem prepared to endure for long age to come , and to endure always , as now ; for be it polar snow or torrid sun , like a patent chronometer , his interior vitality be warrant to do well in all climate . look into his eye , you seem to see there the yet linger image of those thousand - fold peril he have calmly confront through life . a staid , steadfast man , whose life for the most part be a tell pantomime of action , and not a tame chapter of sound . yet , for all his hardy sobriety and fortitude , there be certain quality in he which at time affect , and in some case seem well nigh to overbalance all the rest . uncommonly conscientious for a seaman , and endue with a deep natural reverence , the wild watery loneliness of his life do therefore strongly incline he to superstition ; but to that sort of superstition , which in some organization seem rather to spring , somehow , from intelligence than from ignorance . outward portent and inward presentiment be his . and if at time these thing bent the weld iron of his soul , much more do his far - away domestic memory of his young cape wife and child , tend to bend he still more from the original ruggedness of his nature , and open he still far to those latent influence which , in some honest - hearted man , restrain the gush of dare - devil daring , so often evince by other in the more perilous vicissitude of the fishery . " i will have no man in my boat , " say starbuck , " who be not afraid of a whale . " by this , he seem to mean , not only that the most reliable and useful courage be that which arise from the fair estimation of the encounter peril , but that an utterly fearless man be a far more dangerous comrade than a coward .
" aye , aye , " say stubb , the second mate , " starbuck , there , be as careful a man as you will find anywhere in this fishery . " but we shall ere long see what that word " careful " precisely mean when use by a man like stubb , or almost any other whale hunter .
starbuck be no crusader after peril ; in he courage be not a sentiment ; but a thing simply useful to he , and always at hand upon all mortally practical occasion . besides , he think , perhaps , that in this business of whaling , courage be one of the great staple outfit of the ship , like her beef and her bread , and not to be foolishly waste . wherefore he have no fancy for lower for whale after sun - down ; nor for persist in fight a fish that too much persist in fight he . for , think starbuck , i be here in this critical ocean to kill whale for my living , and not to be kill by they for theirs ; and that hundred of man have be so kill starbuck well know . what doom be his own father 's ? where , in the bottomless deep , could he find the torn limb of his brother ?
with memory like these in he , and , moreover , give to a certain superstitiousness , as have be say ; the courage of this starbuck which could , nevertheless , still flourish , must indeed have be extreme . but it be not in reasonable nature that a man so organize , and with such terrible experience and remembrance as he have ; it be not in nature that these thing should fail in latently engender an element in he , which , under suitable circumstance , would break out from its confinement , and burn all his courage up . and brave as he might be , it be that sort of bravery chiefly , visible in some intrepid man , which , while generally abide firm in the conflict with sea , or wind , or whale , or any of the ordinary irrational horror of the world , yet can not withstand those more terrific , because more spiritual terror , which sometimes menace you from the concentrate brow of an enraged and mighty man .
but be the come narrative to reveal in any instance , the complete abasement of poor starbuck 's fortitude , scarce might i have the heart to write it ; for it be a thing most sorrowful , nay shocking , to expose the fall of valour in the soul . man may seem detestable as joint stock - company and nation ; knave , fool , and murderer there may be ; man may have mean and meagre face ; but man , in the ideal , be so noble and so sparkling , such a grand and glowing creature , that over any ignominious blemish in he all his fellow should run to throw their costly robe . that immaculate manliness we feel within ourselves , so far within we , that it remain intact though all the outer character seem go ; bleed with keenest anguish at the undraped spectacle of a valor - ruin man . nor can piety itself , at such a shameful sight , completely stifle her upbraiding against the permit star . but this august dignity i treat of , be not the dignity of king and robe , but that abound dignity which have no robed investiture . thou shalt see it shin in the arm that wield a pick or drive a spike ; that democratic dignity which , on all hand , radiate without end from god ; himself ! the great god absolute ! the centre and circumference of all democracy ! his omnipresence , our divine equality !
if , then , to mean mariner , and renegade and castaway , i shall hereafter ascribe high quality , though dark ; weave round they tragic grace ; if even the most mournful , perchance the most abased , among they all , shall at time lift himself to the exalt mount ; if i shall touch that workman 's arm with some ethereal light ; if i shall spread a rainbow over his disastrous set of sun ; then against all mortal critic bear i out in it , thou just spirit of equality , which hast spread one royal mantle of humanity over all my kind ! bear i out in it , thou great democratic god ! who didst not refuse to the swart convict , bunyan , the pale , poetic pearl ; thou who didst clothe with doubly hammer leaf of fine gold , the stumped and paupered arm of old cervantes ; thou who didst pick up andrew jackson from the pebble ; who didst hurl he upon a war - horse ; who didst thunder he high than a throne ! thou who , in all thy mighty , earthly marching , ever cull thy select champion from the kingly commons ; bear i out in it , o god !
chapter 27
knights and squires .
stubb be the second mate . he be a native of cape cod ; and hence , accord to local usage , be call a cape - cod - man . a happy - go - lucky ; neither craven nor valiant ; take peril as they come with an indifferent air ; and while engage in the most imminent crisis of the chase , toil away , calm and collect as a journeyman joiner engage for the year . good - humor , easy , and careless , he preside over his whale - boat as if the most deadly encounter be but a dinner , and his crew all invite guest . he be as particular about the comfortable arrangement of his part of the boat , as an old stage - driver be about the snugness of his box . when close to the whale , in the very death - lock of the fight , he handle his unpitying lance coolly and off - handedly , as a whistle tinker his hammer . he would hum over his old rigadig tune while flank and flank with the most exasperated monster . long usage have , for this stubb , convert the jaw of death into an easy chair . what he think of death itself , there be no telling . whether he ever think of it at all , might be a question ; but , if he ever do chance to cast his mind that way after a comfortable dinner , no doubt , like a good sailor , he take it to be a sort of call of the watch to tumble aloft , and bestir themselves there , about something which he would find out when he obey the order , and not soon .
what , perhaps , with other thing , make stubb such an easy - go , unfeare man , so cheerily trudge off with the burden of life in a world full of grave pedlar , all bow to the ground with their pack ; what help to bring about that almost impious good - humor of his ; that thing must have be his pipe . for , like his nose , his short , black little pipe be one of the regular feature of his face . you would almost as soon have expect he to turn out of his bunk without his nose as without his pipe . he keep a whole row of pipe there ready load , stick in a rack , within easy reach of his hand ; and , whenever he turn in , he smoke they all out in succession , light one from the other to the end of the chapter ; then load they again to be in readiness anew . for , when stubb dress , instead of first put his leg into his trowser , he put his pipe into his mouth .
i say this continual smoking must have be one cause , at least , of his peculiar disposition ; for every one know that this earthly air , whether ashore or afloat , be terribly infect with the nameless misery of the numberless mortal who have die exhale it ; and as in time of the cholera , some people go about with a camphorate handkerchief to their mouth ; so , likewise , against all mortal tribulation , stubb 's tobacco smoke might have operate as a sort of disinfect agent .
the third mate be flask , a native of tisbury , in martha 's vineyard . a short , stout , ruddy young fellow , very pugnacious concern whale , who somehow seem to think that the great leviathan have personally and hereditarily affront he ; and therefore it be a sort of point of honour with he , to destroy they whenever encounter . so utterly lose be he to all sense of reverence for the many marvel of their majestic bulk and mystic way ; and so dead to anything like an apprehension of any possible danger from encounter they ; that in his poor opinion , the wondrous whale be but a species of magnify mouse , or at least water - rat , require only a little circumvention and some small application of time and trouble in order to kill and boil . this ignorant , unconscious fearlessness of his make he a little waggish in the matter of whale ; he follow these fish for the fun of it ; and a three year ' voyage round cape horn be only a jolly joke that last that length of time . as a carpenter 's nail be divide into wrought nail and cut nail ; so mankind may be similarly divide . little flask be one of the wrought one ; make to clinch tight and last long . they call he king - post on board of the pequod ; because , in form , he could be well liken to the short , square timber know by that name in arctic whaler ; and which by the mean of many radiating side timber insert into it , serve to brace the ship against the icy concussion of those batter sea .
now these three mate -- starbuck , stubb , and flask , be momentous man . they it be who by universal prescription command three of the pequod 's boat as headsman . in that grand order of battle in which captain ahab would probably marshal his force to descend on the whale , these three headsman be as captain of company . or , be arm with their long keen whaling spear , they be as a pick trio of lancer ; even as the harpooneer be flinger of javelin .
and since in this famous fishery , each mate or headsman , like a gothic knight of old , be always accompany by his boat - steerer or harpooneer , who in certain conjuncture provide he with a fresh lance , when the former one have be badly twisted , or elbow in the assault ; and moreover , as there generally subsist between the two , a close intimacy and friendliness ; it be therefore but meet , that in this place we set down who the pequod 's harpooneer be , and to what headsman each of they belong .
first of all be queequeg , whom starbuck , the chief mate , have select for his squire . but queequeg be already know .
next be tashtego , an unmixed indian from gay head , the most westerly promontory of martha 's vineyard , where there still exist the last remnant of a village of red man , which have long supply the neighboring island of nantucket with many of her most daring harpooneer . in the fishery , they usually go by the generic name of gay - headers . tashtego 's long , lean , sable hair , his high cheek bone , and black round eye -- for an indian , oriental in their largeness , but antarctic in their glitter expression -- all this sufficiently proclaim he an inheritor of the unvitiated blood of those proud warrior hunter , who , in quest of the great new england moose , have scour , bow in hand , the aboriginal forest of the main . but no long snuff in the trail of the wild beast of the woodland , tashtego now hunt in the wake of the great whale of the sea ; the unerre harpoon of the son fitly replace the infallible arrow of the sire . to look at the tawny brawn of his lithe snaky limb , you would almost have credit the superstition of some of the early puritans , and half - believe this wild indian to be a son of the prince of the powers of the air . tashtego be stubb the second mate 's squire .
third among the harpooneer be daggoo , a gigantic , coal - black negro - savage , with a lion - like tread -- an ahasuerus to behold . suspend from his ear be two golden hoop , so large that the sailor call they ring - bolt , and would talk of secure the top - sail halyard to they . in his youth daggoo have voluntarily ship on board of a whaler , lie in a lonely bay on his native coast . and never having be anywhere in the world but in africa , nantucket , and the pagan harbor most frequent by whaleman ; and having now lead for many year the bold life of the fishery in the ship of owner uncommonly heedful of what manner of man they ship ; daggoo retain all his barbaric virtue , and erect as a giraffe , move about the deck in all the pomp of six foot five in his sock . there be a corporeal humility in look up at he ; and a white man stand before he seem a white flag come to beg truce of a fortress . curious to tell , this imperial negro , ahasuerus daggoo , be the squire of little flask , who look like a chess - man beside he . as for the residue of the pequod 's company , be it say , that at the present day not one in two of the many thousand man before the mast employ in the american whale fishery , be americans bear , though pretty nearly all the officer be . herein it be the same with the american whale fishery as with the american army and military and merchant navy , and the engineering force employ in the construction of the american canals and railroad . the same , i say , because in all these case the native american liberally provide the brain , the rest of the world as generously supply the muscle . no small number of these whale seaman belong to the azores , where the outward bind nantucket whaler frequently touch to augment their crew from the hardy peasant of those rocky shore . in like manner , the greenland whaler sail out of hull or london , put in at the shetland islands , to receive the full complement of their crew . upon the passage homeward , they drop they there again . how it be , there be no telling , but islander seem to make the good whaleman . they be nearly all islanders in the pequod , isolatoe too , i call such , not acknowledge the common continent of man , but each isolato live on a separate continent of his own . yet now , federate along one keel , what a set these isolatoe be ! an anacharsis clootz deputation from all the isle of the sea , and all the end of the earth , accompany old ahab in the pequod to lay the world 's grievance before that bar from which not very many of they ever come back . black little pip -- he never do -- oh , no ! he go before . poor alabama boy ! on the grim pequod 's forecastle , ye shall ere long see he , beat his tambourine ; prelusive of the eternal time , when send for , to the great quarter - deck on high , he be bid strike in with angel , and beat his tambourine in glory ; call a coward here , hail a hero there !
chapter 28
ahab .
for several day after leave nantucket , nothing above hatch be see of captain ahab . the mate regularly relieve each other at the watch , and for aught that could be see to the contrary , they seem to be the only commander of the ship ; only they sometimes issue from the cabin with order so sudden and peremptory , that after all it be plain they but command vicariously . yes , their supreme lord and dictator be there , though hitherto unseen by any eye not permit to penetrate into the now sacred retreat of the cabin .
every time i ascend to the deck from my watch below , i instantly gaze aft to mark if any strange face be visible ; for my first vague disquietude touch the unknown captain , now in the seclusion of the sea , become almost a perturbation . this be strangely heighten at time by the ragged elijah 's diabolical incoherence uninvitedly recur to i , with a subtle energy i could not have before conceive of . but poorly could i withstand they , much as in other mood i be almost ready to smile at the solemn whimsicality of that outlandish prophet of the wharf . but whatever it be of apprehensiveness or uneasiness -- to call it so -- which i feel , yet whenever i come to look about i in the ship , it seem against all warrantry to cherish such emotion . for though the harpooneer , with the great body of the crew , be a far more barbaric , heathenish , and motley set than any of the tame merchant - ship company which my previous experience have make i acquainted with , still i ascribe this -- and rightly ascribe it -- to the fierce uniqueness of the very nature of that wild scandinavian vocation in which i have so abandonedly embark . but it be especially the aspect of the three chief officer of the ship , the mate , which be most forcibly calculate to allay these colourless misgiving , and induce confidence and cheerfulness in every presentment of the voyage . three well , more likely sea - officer and man , each in his own different way , could not readily be find , and they be every one of they americans ; a nantucketer , a vineyarder , a cape man . now , it be christmas when the ship shoot from out her harbor , for a space we have bite polar weather , though all the time run away from it to the southward ; and by every degree and minute of latitude which we sail , gradually leave that merciless winter , and all its intolerable weather behind we . it be one of those less lower , but still grey and gloomy enough morning of the transition , when with a fair wind the ship be rush through the water with a vindictive sort of leaping and melancholy rapidity , that as i mount to the deck at the call of the forenoon watch , so soon as i level my glance towards the taffrail , foreboding shiver run over i . reality outran apprehension ; captain ahab stand upon his quarter - deck .
there seem no sign of common bodily illness about he , nor of the recovery from any . he look like a man cut away from the stake , when the fire have overrunningly waste all the limb without consume they , or take away one particle from their compact aged robustness . his whole high , broad form , seemed make of solid bronze , and shape in an unalterable mould , like cellini 's cast perseus . thread its way out from among his grey hair , and continue right down one side of his tawny scorch face and neck , till it disappear in his clothing , you see a slender rod - like mark , lividly whitish . it resemble that perpendicular seam sometimes make in the straight , lofty trunk of a great tree , when the upper lightning tearingly dart down it , and without wrench a single twig , peel and groove out the bark from top to bottom , ere run off into the soil , leave the tree still greenly alive , but brand . whether that mark be bear with he , or whether it be the scar leave by some desperate wound , no one could certainly say . by some tacit consent , throughout the voyage little or no allusion be make to it , especially by the mate . but once tashtego 's senior , an old gay - head indian among the crew , superstitiously assert that not till he be full forty year old do ahab become that way brand , and then it come upon he , not in the fury of any mortal fray , but in an elemental strife at sea . yet , this wild hint seem inferentially negative , by what a grey manxman insinuate , an old sepulchral man , who , having never before sail out of nantucket , have never ere this lay eye upon wild ahab . nevertheless , the old sea - tradition , the immemorial credulity , popularly invest this old manxman with preternatural power of discernment . so that no white sailor seriously contradict he when he say that if ever captain ahab should be tranquilly lay out -- which might hardly come to pass , so he mutter -- then , whoever should do that last office for the dead , would find a birth - mark on he from crown to sole .
so powerfully do the whole grim aspect of ahab affect i , and the livid brand which streak it , that for the first few moment i hardly note that not a little of this overbearing grimness be owe to the barbaric white leg upon which he partly stand . it have previously come to i that this ivory leg have at sea be fashion from the polished bone of the sperm whale 's jaw . " aye , he be dismaste off japan , " say the old gay - head indian once ; " but like his dismaste craft , he ship another mast without come home for it . he have a quiver of them . "
i be strike with the singular posture he maintain . upon each side of the pequod 's quarter deck , and pretty close to the mizzen shroud , there be an auger hole , bore about half an inch or so , into the plank . his bone leg steady in that hole ; one arm elevate , and hold by a shroud ; captain ahab stand erect , look straight out beyond the ship 's ever - pitch prow . there be an infinity of firm fortitude , a determinate , unsurrenderable wilfulness , in the fixed and fearless , forward dedication of that glance . not a word he speak ; nor do his officer say aught to he ; though by all their minute gesture and expression , they plainly show the uneasy , if not painful , consciousness of be under a troubled master - eye . and not only that , but moody stricken ahab stand before they with a crucifixion in his face ; in all the nameless regal overbear dignity of some mighty woe .
ere long , from his first visit in the air , he withdraw into his cabin . but after that morning , he be every day visible to the crew ; either stand in his pivot - hole , or seat upon an ivory stool he have ; or heavily walk the deck . as the sky grow less gloomy ; indeed , begin to grow a little genial , he become still less and less a recluse ; as if , when the ship have sail from home , nothing but the dead wintry bleakness of the sea have then keep he so seclude . and , by and by , it come to pass , that he be almost continually in the air ; but , as yet , for all that he say , or perceptibly do , on the at last sunny deck , he seem as unnecessary there as another mast . but the pequod be only make a passage now ; not regularly cruise ; nearly all whale preparative need supervision the mate be fully competent to , so that there be little or nothing , out of himself , to employ or excite ahab , now ; and thus chase away , for that one interval , the cloud that layer upon layer be pile upon his brow , as ever all cloud choose the lofty peak to pile themselves upon .
nevertheless , ere long , the warm , warble persuasiveness of the pleasant , holiday weather we come to , seem gradually to charm he from his mood . for , as when the red - cheeked , dancing girl , april and may , trip home to the wintry , misanthropic wood ; even the bare , ruggedest , most thunder - cloven old oak will at least send forth some few green sprout , to welcome such glad - hearted visitant ; so ahab do , in the end , a little respond to the playful alluring of that girlish air . more than once do he put forth the faint blossom of a look , which , in any other man , would have soon flower out in a smile .
chapter 29
enter ahab ; to he , stubb .
some day elapse , and ice and iceberg all astern , the pequod now went roll through the bright quito spring , which , at sea , almost perpetually reign on the threshold of the eternal august of the tropic . the warmly cool , clear , ringing , perfume , overflow , redundant day , be as crystal goblet of persian sherbet , heap up -- flake up , with rose - water snow . the starred and stately night seem haughty dame in jewelled velvet , nurse at home in lonely pride , the memory of their absent conquer earls , the golden helmeted sun ! for sleep man , ' twa hard to choose between such winsome day and such seducing night . but all the witchery of that unwaning weather do not merely lend new spell and potency to the outward world . inward they turn upon the soul , especially when the still mild hour of eve come on ; then , memory shoot her crystal as the clear ice most form of noiseless twilight . and all these subtle agency , more and more they work on ahab 's texture .
old age be always wakeful ; as if , the long link with life , the less man have to do with aught that look like death . among sea - commander , the old greybeard will oftenest leave their berth to visit the night - cloak deck . it be so with ahab ; only that now , of late , he seem so much to live in the open air , that truly speak , his visit be more to the cabin , than from the cabin to the plank . " it feel like go down into one 's tomb,"--he would mutter to himself--"for an old captain like i to be descend this narrow scuttle , to go to my grave - dig berth . "
so , almost every twenty - four hour , when the watch of the night be set , and the band on deck sentinelle the slumber of the band below ; and when if a rope be to be haul upon the forecastle , the sailor fling it not rudely down , as by day , but with some cautiousness dropt it to its place for fear of disturb their slumbering shipmate ; when this sort of steady quietude would begin to prevail , habitually , the silent steersman would watch the cabin - scuttle ; and ere long the old man would emerge , grip at the iron banister , to help his crippled way . some consider touch of humanity be in he ; for at time like these , he usually abstain from patrol the quarter - deck ; because to his wearied mate , seek repose within six inch of his ivory heel , such would have be the reverberate crack and din of that bony step , that their dream would have be on the crunch tooth of shark . but once , the mood be on he too deep for common regarding ; and as with heavy , lumber - like pace he be measure the ship from taffrail to mainmast , stubb , the old second mate , come up from below , with a certain unassured , deprecate humorousness , hint that if captain ahab be pleased to walk the plank , then , no one could say nay ; but there might be some way of muffle the noise ; hint something indistinctly and hesitatingly about a globe of tow , and the insertion into it , of the ivory heel . ah ! stubb , thou didst not know ahab then .
" be i a cannon - ball , stubb , " say ahab , " that thou wouldst wad i that fashion ? but go thy way ; i have forget . below to thy nightly grave ; where such as ye sleep between shroud , to use ye to the fill one at last.--down , dog , and kennel ! "
start at the unforseen concluding exclamation of the so suddenly scornful old man , stubb be speechless a moment ; then say excitedly , " i be not use to be speak to that way , sir ; i do but less than half like it , sir . "
" avast ! grit ahab between his set tooth , and violently move away , as if to avoid some passionate temptation .
" no , sir ; not yet , " say stubb , embolden , " i will not tamely be call a dog , sir . "
" then be call ten time a donkey , and a mule , and an ass , and begone , or i will clear the world of thee ! "
as he say this , ahab advance upon he with such overbear terror in his aspect , that stubb involuntarily retreat .
" i be never serve so before without give a hard blow for it , " mutter stubb , as he find himself descend the cabin - scuttle . " it be very queer . stop , stubb ; somehow , now , i do not well know whether to go back and strike he , or -- what be that?--down here on my knee and pray for he ? yes , that be the thought come up in i ; but it would be the first time i ever do pray . it be queer ; very queer ; and he be queer too ; aye , take he fore and aft , he be about the queer old man stubb ever sail with . how he flash at me!--his eye like powder - pan ! be he mad ? anyway there be something on his mind , as sure as there must be something on a deck when it crack . he be not in his bed now , either , more than three hour out of the twenty - four ; and he do not sleep then . do not that dough - boy , the steward , tell i that of a morning he always find the old man 's hammock clothe all rumple and tumble , and the sheet down at the foot , and the coverlid almost tie into knot , and the pillow a sort of frightful hot , as though a baked brick have be on it ? a hot old man ! i guess he be get what some folk ashore call a conscience ; it be a kind of tic - dolly - row they say -- bad nor a toothache . well , well ; i do not know what it be , but the lord keep i from catch it . he be full of riddle ; i wonder what he go into the after hold for , every night , as dough - boy tell i he suspect ; what be that for , i should like to know ? who be make appointment with he in the hold ? ai not that queer , now ? but there be no telling , it be the old game -- here go for a snooze . damn i , it be worth a fellow 's while to be bear into the world , if only to fall right asleep . and now that i think of it , that be about the first thing baby do , and that be a sort of queer , too . damn i , but all thing be queer , come to think of them . but that be against my principle . think not , be my eleventh commandment ; and sleep when you can , be my twelfth -- so here go again . but how be that ? do not he call i a dog ? blaze ! he call i ten time a donkey , and pile a lot of jackass on top of that ! he might as well have kick i , and do with it . maybe he do kick i , and i do not observe it , i be so take all aback with his brow , somehow . it flash like a bleached bone . what the devil 's the matter with i ? i do not stand right on my leg . come afoul of that old man have a sort of turn i wrong side out . by the lord , i must have be dream , though -- how ? how ? how?--but the only way 's to stash it ; so here go to hammock again ; and in the morning , i will see how this plaguey juggling think over by daylight . "
chapter 30
the pipe .
when stubb have depart , ahab stand for a while lean over the bulwark ; and then , as have be usual with he of late , call a sailor of the watch , he send he below for his ivory stool , and also his pipe . light the pipe at the binnacle lamp and plant the stool on the weather side of the deck , he sit and smoke .
in old norse time , the throne of the sea - love danish king be fabricate , saith tradition , of the tusk of the narwhale . how could one look at ahab then , seat on that tripod of bone , without bethink he of the royalty it symbolize ? for a khan of the plank , and a king of the sea , and a great lord of leviathans be ahab .
some moment pass , during which the thick vapour come from his mouth in quick and constant puff , which blow back again into his face . " how now , " he soliloquize at last , withdraw the tube , " this smoking no long soothe . oh , my pipe ! hard must it go with i if thy charm be go ! here have i be unconsciously toil , not pleasuring -- aye , and ignorantly smoke to windward all the while ; to windward , and with such nervous whiff , as if , like the die whale , my final jet be the strong and full of trouble . what business have i with this pipe ? this thing that be mean for sereneness , to send up mild white vapour among mild white hair , not among tear iron - grey lock like mine . i will smoke no more-- "
he toss the still light pipe into the sea . the fire hiss in the wave ; the same instant the ship shoot by the bubble the sink pipe make . with slouched hat , ahab lurchingly pace the plank .
chapter 31
queen mab .
next morning stubb accost flask .
" such a queer dream , king - post , i never have . you know the old man 's ivory leg , well i dream he kick i with it ; and when i try to kick back , upon my soul , my little man , i kick my leg right off ! and then , presto ! ahab seem a pyramid , and i , like a blaze fool , keep kick at it . but what be still more curious , flask -- you know how curious all dream be -- through all this rage that i be in , i somehow seem to be think to myself , that after all , it be not much of an insult , that kick from ahab . ' why , ' think i , ' what be the row ? it be not a real leg , only a false leg . ' and there be a mighty difference between a live thump and a dead thump . that be what make a blow from the hand , flask , fifty time more savage to bear than a blow from a cane . the live member -- that make the live insult , my little man . and think i to myself all the while , mind , while i be stub my silly toe against that cursed pyramid -- so confoundedly contradictory be it all , all the while , i say , i be think to myself , ' what be his leg now , but a cane -- a whalebone cane . yes , ' think i , ' it be only a playful cudgelling -- in fact , only a whaleboning that he give i -- not a base kick . besides , ' think i , ' look at it once ; why , the end of it -- the foot part -- what a small sort of end it be ; whereas , if a broad footed farmer kick i , there be a devilish broad insult . but this insult be whittle down to a point only . ' but now come the great joke of the dream , flask . while i be batter away at the pyramid , a sort of badger - haired old merman , with a hump on his back , take i by the shoulder , and slew i round . ' what be you 'bout ? ' say he . slid ! man , but i be frightened . such a phiz ! but , somehow , next moment i be over the fright . ' what be i about ? ' say i at last . ' and what business be that of your , i should like to know , mr. humpback ? do you want a kick ? ' by the lord , flask , i have no soon say that , than he turn round his stern to i , bent over , and drag up a lot of seaweed he have for a clout -- what do you think , i saw?--why thunder alive , man , his stern be stick full of marlinspike , with the point out . say i , on second thought , ' i guess i will not kick you , old fellow . ' ' wise stubb , ' say he , ' wise stubb ; ' and keep mutter it all the time , a sort of eating of his own gum like a chimney hag . see he be not go to stop say over his ' wise stubb , wise stubb , ' i think i might as well fall to kick the pyramid again . but i have only just lift my foot for it , when he roar out , ' stop that kicking ! ' ' halloa , ' say i , ' what be the matter now , old fellow ? ' ' look ye here , ' say he ; ' let us argue the insult . captain ahab kick ye , do not he ? ' ' yes , he do , ' say i--'right here it be . ' ' very good , ' say he--'he use his ivory leg , do not he ? ' ' yes , he do , ' say i. ' well then , ' say he , ' wise stubb , what have you to complain of ? do not he kick with right good will ? it be not a common pitch pine leg he kick with , be it ? no , you be kick by a great man , and with a beautiful ivory leg , stubb . it be an honour ; i consider it an honour . listen , wise stubb . in old england the great lord think it great glory to be slap by a queen , and make garter - knight of ; but , be your boast , stubb , that ye be kick by old ahab , and make a wise man of . remember what i say ; be kick by he ; account his kick honour ; and on no account kick back ; for you can not help yourself , wise stubb . do not you see that pyramid ? ' with that , he all of a sudden seem somehow , in some queer fashion , to swim off into the air . i snore ; roll over ; and there i be in my hammock ! now , what do you think of that dream , flask ? "
" i do not know ; it seem a sort of foolish to i , tho . ' "
" may be ; may be . but it be make a wise man of i , flask . d'ye see ahab stand there , sideways look over the stern ? well , the good thing you can do , flask , be to let the old man alone ; never speak to he , whatever he say . halloa ! what be that he shout ? hark ! "
" mast - head , there ! look sharp , all of ye ! there be whale hereabouts !
if ye see a white one , split your lung for he !
" what do you think of that now , flask ? be not there a small drop of something queer about that , eh ? a white whale -- do ye mark that , man ? look ye -- there be something special in the wind . stand by for it , flask . ahab have that that be bloody on his mind . but , mum ; he come this way . "
chapter 32
cetology .
already we be boldly launch upon the deep ; but soon we shall be lose in its unshored , harbourless immensity . ere that come to pass ; ere the pequod 's weedy hull roll side by side with the barnacle hull of the leviathan ; at the outset it be but well to attend to a matter almost indispensable to a thorough appreciative understanding of the more special leviathanic revelation and allusion of all sort which be to follow .
it be some systematize exhibition of the whale in his broad genera , that i would now fain put before you . yet be it no easy task . the classification of the constituent of a chaos , nothing less be here essay . listen to what the good and late authority have lay down .
" no branch of zoology be so much involved as that which be entitle cetology , " say captain scoresby , a.d. 1820 .
" it be not my intention , be it in my power , to enter into the inquiry as to the true method of divide the cetacea into group and family .... utter confusion exist among the historian of this animal " ( sperm whale ) , say surgeon beale , a.d. 1839 .
" unfitness to pursue our research in the unfathomable water . " " impenetrable veil cover our knowledge of the cetacea . " " a field strew with thorn . " " all these incomplete indication but serve to torture we naturalist . "
thus speak of the whale , the great cuvier , and john hunter , and lesson , those light of zoology and anatomy . nevertheless , though of real knowledge there be little , yet of book there be a plenty ; and so in some small degree , with cetology , or the science of whale . many be the man , small and great , old and new , landsman and seaman , who have at large or in little , write of the whale . run over a few:--the authors of the bible ; aristotle ; pliny ; aldrovandi ; sir thomas browne ; gesner ; ray ; linnaeus ; rondeletius ; willoughby ; green ; artedi ; sibbald ; brisson ; marten ; lacepede ; bonneterre ; desmarest ; baron cuvier ; frederick cuvier ; john hunter ; owen ; scoresby ; beale ; bennett ; j. ross browne ; the author of miriam coffin ; olmstead ; and the rev. t. cheever . but to what ultimate generalize purpose all these have write , the above cite extract will show .
of the name in this list of whale author , only those follow owen ever see live whale ; and but one of they be a real professional harpooneer and whaleman . i mean captain scoresby . on the separate subject of the greenland or right - whale , he be the good exist authority . but scoresby know nothing and say nothing of the great sperm whale , compare with which the greenland whale be almost unworthy mentioning . and here be it say , that the greenland whale be an usurper upon the throne of the sea . he be not even by any mean the large of the whale . yet , owe to the long priority of his claim , and the profound ignorance which , till some seventy year back , invest the then fabulous or utterly unknown sperm - whale , and which ignorance to this present day still reign in all but some few scientific retreat and whale - port ; this usurpation have be every way complete . reference to nearly all the leviathanic allusion in the great poet of past day , will satisfy you that the greenland whale , without one rival , be to they the monarch of the sea . but the time have at last come for a new proclamation . this be charing cross ; hear ye ! good people all,--the greenland whale be deposed,--the great sperm whale now reigneth !
there be only two book in be which at all pretend to put the live sperm whale before you , and at the same time , in the remotest degree succeed in the attempt . those book be beale 's and bennett 's ; both in their time surgeon to english south - sea whale - ship , and both exact and reliable man . the original matter touch the sperm whale to be find in their volume be necessarily small ; but so far as it go , it be of excellent quality , though mostly confine to scientific description . as yet , however , the sperm whale , scientific or poetic , live not complete in any literature . far above all other hunt whale , his be an unwritten life .
now the various specie of whale need some sort of popular comprehensive classification , if only an easy outline one for the present , hereafter to be fill in all its department by subsequent laborer . as no well man advance to take this matter in hand , i hereupon offer my own poor endeavor . i promise nothing complete ; because any human thing suppose to be complete , must for that very reason infallibly be faulty . i shall not pretend to a minute anatomical description of the various specie , or -- in this place at least -- to much of any description . my object here be simply to project the draught of a systematization of cetology . i be the architect , not the builder .
but it be a ponderous task ; no ordinary letter - sorter in the post - office be equal to it . to grope down into the bottom of the sea after they ; to have one 's hand among the unspeakable foundation , rib , and very pelvis of the world ; this be a fearful thing . what be i that i should essay to hook the nose of this leviathan ! the awful taunting in job might well appal i . " will he the ( leviathan ) make a covenant with thee ? behold the hope of he be vain ! but i have swim through library and sail through ocean ; i have have to do with whale with these visible hand ; i be in earnest ; and i will try . there be some preliminary to settle .
first : the uncertain , unsettled condition of this science of cetology be in the very vestibule attest by the fact , that in some quarter it still remain a moot point whether a whale be a fish . in his system of nature , a.d. 1776 , linnaeus declare , " i hereby separate the whale from the fish . " but of my own knowledge , i know that down to the year 1850 , shark and shad , alewive and herring , against linnaeus 's express edict , be still find divide the possession of the same sea with the leviathan .
the ground upon which linnaeus would fain have banish the whale from the water , he state as follow : " on account of their warm bilocular heart , their lung , their movable eyelid , their hollow ear , penem intrantem feminam mammis lactantem , " and finally , " ex lege naturae jure meritoque . " i submit all this to my friend simeon macey and charley coffin , of nantucket , both messmate of mine in a certain voyage , and they unite in the opinion that the reason set forth be altogether insufficient . charley profanely hint they be humbug .
be it know that , waive all argument , i take the good old fashioned ground that the whale be a fish , and call upon holy jonah to back i . this fundamental thing settle , the next point be , in what internal respect do the whale differ from other fish . above , linnaeus have give you those item . but in brief , they be these : lung and warm blood ; whereas , all other fish be lungless and cold blooded .
next : how shall we define the whale , by his obvious external , so as conspicuously to label he for all time to come ? to be short , then , a whale be a spouting fish with a horizontal tail . there you have he . however contract , that definition be the result of expand meditation . a walrus spout much like a whale , but the walrus be not a fish , because he be amphibious . but the last term of the definition be still more cogent , as couple with the first . almost any one must have notice that all the fish familiar to landsman have not a flat , but a vertical , or up - and - down tail . whereas , among spout fish the tail , though it may be similarly shape , invariably assume a horizontal position .
by the above definition of what a whale be , i do by no mean exclude from the leviathanic brotherhood any sea creature hitherto identify with the whale by the well inform nantucketers ; nor , on the other hand , link with it any fish hitherto authoritatively regard as alien . * hence , all the small , spouting , and horizontal tail fish must be include in this ground - plan of cetology . now , then , come the grand division of the entire whale host .
* i be aware that down to the present time , the fish style lamatins and dugongs ( pig - fish and sow - fish of the coffins of nantucket ) be include by many naturalist among the whale . but as these pig - fish be a noisy , contemptible set , mostly lurk in the mouth of river , and feed on wet hay , and especially as they do not spout , i deny their credential as whale ; and have present they with their passport to quit the kingdom of cetology .
first : accord to magnitude i divide the whale into three primary book ( subdivisible into chapter ) , and these shall comprehend they all , both small and large .
i. the folio whale ; ii . the octavo whale ; iii . the duodecimo whale .
as the type of the folio i present the sperm whale ; of the octavo , the grampus ; of the duodecimo , the porpoise .
folios . among these i here include the follow chapters:--i. the sperm whale ; ii . the right whale ; iii . the fin - back whale ; iv . the hump - backed whale ; v. the razor - back whale ; vi . the sulphur - bottom whale .
book i. ( folio ) , chapter i. ( sperm whale).--this whale , among the english of old vaguely know as the trumpa whale , and the physeter whale , and the anvil headed whale , be the present cachalot of the french , and the pottsfich of the germans , and the macrocephalus of the long word . he be , without doubt , the large inhabitant of the globe ; the most formidable of all whale to encounter ; the most majestic in aspect ; and lastly , by far the most valuable in commerce ; he be the only creature from which that valuable substance , spermaceti , be obtain . all his peculiarity will , in many other place , be enlarge upon . it be chiefly with his name that i now have to do . philologically consider , it be absurd . some century ago , when the sperm whale be almost wholly unknown in his own proper individuality , and when his oil be only accidentally obtain from the stranded fish ; in those day spermaceti , it would seem , be popularly suppose to be derive from a creature identical with the one then know in england as the greenland or right whale . it be the idea also , that this same spermaceti be that quicken humor of the greenland whale which the first syllable of the word literally express . in those time , also , spermaceti be exceedingly scarce , not be use for light , but only as an ointment and medicament . it be only to be have from the druggist as you nowadays buy an ounce of rhubarb . when , as i opine , in the course of time , the true nature of spermaceti became know , its original name be still retain by the dealer ; no doubt to enhance its value by a notion so strangely significant of its scarcity . and so the appellation must at last have come to be bestow upon the whale from which this spermaceti be really derive .
book i. ( folio ) , chapter ii . ( right whale).--in one respect this be the most venerable of the leviathans , be the one first regularly hunt by man . it yield the article commonly know as whalebone or baleen ; and the oil specially know as " whale oil , " an inferior article in commerce . among the fisherman , he be indiscriminately designate by all the follow title : the whale ; the greenland whale ; the black whale ; the great whale ; the true whale ; the right whale . there be a deal of obscurity concern the identity of the specie thus multitudinously baptise . what then be the whale , which i include in the second specie of my folios ? it be the great mysticetus of the english naturalist ; the greenland whale of the english whaleman ; the baliene ordinaire of the french whaleman ; the growlands walfish of the swedes . it be the whale which for more than two century past have be hunt by the dutch and english in the arctic sea ; it be the whale which the american fisherman have long pursue in the indian ocean , on the brazil banks , on the nor ' west coast , and various other part of the world , designate by they right whale cruising grounds .
some pretend to see a difference between the greenland whale of the english and the right whale of the americans . but they precisely agree in all their grand feature ; nor have there yet be present a single determinate fact upon which to ground a radical distinction . it be by endless subdivision base upon the most inconclusive difference , that some department of natural history become so repellingly intricate . the right whale will be elsewhere treat of at some length , with reference to elucidate the sperm whale .
book i. ( folio ) , chapter iii . ( fin - back).--under this head i reckon a monster which , by the various name of fin - back , tall - spout , and long - john , have be see almost in every sea and be commonly the whale whose distant jet be so often descry by passenger cross the atlantic , in the new york packet - track . in the length he attain , and in his baleen , the fin - back resemble the right whale , but be of a less portly girth , and a light colour , approach to olive . his great lip present a cable - like aspect , form by the intertwiste , slant fold of large wrinkle . his grand distinguishing feature , the fin , from which he derive his name , be often a conspicuous object . this fin be some three or four foot long , grow vertically from the hinder part of the back , of an angular shape , and with a very sharp pointed end . even if not the slight other part of the creature be visible , this isolated fin will , at time , be see plainly project from the surface . when the sea be moderately calm , and slightly mark with spherical ripple , and this gnomon - like fin stand up and cast shadow upon the wrinkle surface , it may well be suppose that the watery circle surround it somewhat resemble a dial , with its style and wavy hour - line grave on it . on that ahaz - dial the shadow often go back . the fin - back be not gregarious . he seem a whale - hater , as some man be man - hater . very shy ; always go solitary ; unexpectedly rise to the surface in the remotest and most sullen water ; his straight and single lofty jet rise like a tall misanthropic spear upon a barren plain ; gift with such wondrous power and velocity in swimming , as to defy all present pursuit from man ; this leviathan seem the banished and unconquerable cain of his race , bear for his mark that style upon his back . from have the baleen in his mouth , the fin - back be sometimes include with the right whale , among a theoretic specie denominate whalebone whales , that is , whale with baleen . of these so call whalebone whale , there would seem to be several variety , most of which , however , be little know . broad - nosed whale and beaked whale ; pike - head whale ; bunch whale ; under - jaw whale and rostrate whale , be the fisherman 's name for a few sort .
in connection with this appellative of " whalebone whale , " it be of great importance to mention , that however such a nomenclature may be convenient in facilitate allusion to some kind of whale , yet it be in vain to attempt a clear classification of the leviathan , found upon either his baleen , or hump , or fin , or tooth ; notwithstanding that those marked part or feature very obviously seem well adapt to afford the basis for a regular system of cetology than any other detach bodily distinction , which the whale , in his kind , present . how then ? the baleen , hump , back - fin , and tooth ; these be thing whose peculiarity be indiscriminately disperse among all sort of whale , without any regard to what may be the nature of their structure in other and more essential particular . thus , the sperm whale and the humpbacked whale , each have a hump ; but there the similitude cease . then , this same humpbacke whale and the greenland whale , each of these have baleen ; but there again the similitude cease . and it be just the same with the other part above mention . in various sort of whale , they form such irregular combination ; or , in the case of any one of they detach , such an irregular isolation ; as utterly to defy all general methodization form upon such a basis . on this rock every one of the whale - naturalist have split .
but it may possibly be conceive that , in the internal part of the whale , in his anatomy -- there , at least , we shall be able to hit the right classification . nay ; what thing , for example , be there in the greenland whale 's anatomy more striking than his baleen ? yet we have see that by his baleen it be impossible correctly to classify the greenland whale . and if you descend into the bowel of the various leviathan , why there you will not find distinction a fiftieth part as available to the systematizer as those external one already enumerate . what then remain ? nothing but to take hold of the whale bodily , in their entire liberal volume , and boldly sort they that way . and this be the bibliographical system here adopt ; and it be the only one that can possibly succeed , for it alone be practicable . to proceed .
book i. ( folio ) chapter iv . ( hump - back).--this whale be often see on the northern american coast . he have be frequently capture there , and tow into harbor . he have a great pack on he like a peddler ; or you might call he the elephant and castle whale . at any rate , the popular name for he do not sufficiently distinguish he , since the sperm whale also have a hump though a small one . his oil be not very valuable . he have baleen . he be the most gamesome and light - hearted of all the whale , make more gay foam and white water generally than any other of they .
book i. ( folio ) , chapter v. ( razor - back).--of this whale little be know but his name . i have see he at a distance off cape horn . of a retire nature , he elude both hunter and philosopher . though no coward , he have never yet show any part of he but his back , which rise in a long sharp ridge . let he go . i know little more of he , nor do anybody else .
book i. ( folio ) , chapter vi . ( sulphur - bottom).--another retire gentleman , with a brimstone belly , doubtless get by scrap along the tartarian tile in some of his profounder diving . he be seldom see ; at least i have never see he except in the remoter southern sea , and then always at too great a distance to study his countenance . he be never chase ; he would run away with rope - walk of line . prodigy be tell of he . adieu , sulphur bottom ! i can say nothing more that be true of ye , nor can the old nantucketer .
thus end book i. ( folio ) , and now begin book ii . ( octavo ) .
octavoes.*--these embrace the whale of middling magnitude , among which present may be numbered:--i. , the grampus ; ii . , the black fish ; iii . , the narwhale ; iv . , the thrasher ; v. , the killer .
* why this book of whale be not denominate the quarto be very plain . because , while the whale of this order , though small than those of the former order , nevertheless retain a proportionate likeness to they in figure , yet the bookbinder 's quarto volume in its dimension form do not preserve the shape of the folio volume , but the octavo volume do .
book ii . ( octavo ) , chapter i. ( grampus).--though this fish , whose loud sonorous breathing , or rather blow , have furnish a proverb to landsman , be so well know a denizen of the deep , yet be he not popularly class among whale . but possess all the grand distinctive feature of the leviathan , most naturalist have recognise he for one . he be of moderate octavo size , vary from fifteen to twenty - five foot in length , and of corresponding dimension round the waist . he swim in herd ; he be never regularly hunt , though his oil be considerable in quantity , and pretty good for light . by some fisherman his approach be regard as premonitory of the advance of the great sperm whale .
book ii . ( octavo ) , chapter ii . ( black fish).--i give the popular fisherman 's name for all these fish , for generally they be the good . where any name happen to be vague or inexpressive , i shall say so , and suggest another . i do so now , touch the black fish , so - call , because blackness be the rule among almost all whale . so , call he the hyena whale , if you please . his voracity be well know , and from the circumstance that the inner angle of his lip be curve upwards , he carry an everlasting mephistophelean grin on his face . this whale average some sixteen or eighteen foot in length . he be find in almost all latitude . he have a peculiar way of show his dorsal hooked fin in swimming , which look something like a roman nose . when not more profitably employ , the sperm whale hunter sometimes capture the hyena whale , to keep up the supply of cheap oil for domestic employment -- as some frugal housekeeper , in the absence of company , and quite alone by themselves , burn unsavory tallow instead of odorous wax . though their blubber be very thin , some of these whale will yield you upwards of thirty gallon of oil .
book ii . ( octavo ) , chapter iii . ( narwhale ) , that is , nostril whale.--another instance of a curiously name whale , so name i suppose from his peculiar horn be originally mistake for a peaked nose . the creature be some sixteen foot in length , while its horn average five foot , though some exceed ten , and even attain to fifteen foot . strictly speak , this horn be but a lengthened tusk , grow out from the jaw in a line a little depressed from the horizontal . but it be only find on the sinister side , which have an ill effect , give its owner something analogous to the aspect of a clumsy left - handed man . what precise purpose this ivory horn or lance answer , it would be hard to say . it do not seem to be use like the blade of the sword - fish and bill - fish ; though some sailor tell i that the narwhale employ it for a rake in turn over the bottom of the sea for food . charley coffin say it be use for an ice - piercer ; for the narwhale , rise to the surface of the polar sea , and find it sheet with ice , thrust his horn up , and so break through . but you can not prove either of these surmise to be correct . my own opinion be , that however this one - side horn may really be use by the narwhale -- however that may be -- it would certainly be very convenient to he for a folder in read pamphlet . the narwhale i have hear call the tusked whale , the horn whale , and the unicorn whale . he be certainly a curious example of the unicornism to be find in almost every kingdom of animate nature . from certain cloister old author i have gather that this same sea - unicorn 's horn be in ancient day regard as the great antidote against poison , and as such , preparation of it bring immense price . it be also distil to a volatile salt for faint lady , the same way that the horn of the male deer be manufacture into hartshorn . originally it be in itself account an object of great curiosity . black letter tell i that sir martin frobisher on his return from that voyage , when queen bess do gallantly wave her jewelled hand to he from a window of greenwich palace , as his bold ship sail down the thames ; " when sir martin return from that voyage , " saith black letter , " on bended knee he present to her highness a prodigious long horn of the narwhale , which for a long period after hang in the castle at windsor . " an irish author aver that the earl of leicester , on bended knee , do likewise present to her highness another horn , pertain to a land beast of the unicorn nature .
the narwhale have a very picturesque , leopard - like look , be of a milk - white ground colour , dot with round and oblong spot of black . his oil be very superior , clear and fine ; but there be little of it , and he be seldom hunted . he be mostly find in the circumpolar sea .
book ii . ( octavo ) , chapter iv . ( killer).--of this whale little be precisely know to the nantucketer , and nothing at all to the profess naturalist . from what i have see of he at a distance , i should say that he be about the bigness of a grampus . he be very savage -- a sort of feegee fish . he sometimes take the great folio whale by the lip , and hang there like a leech , till the mighty brute be worried to death . the killer be never hunt . i never hear what sort of oil he have . exception might be take to the name bestow upon this whale , on the ground of its indistinctness . for we be all killer , on land and on sea ; bonapartes and sharks include .
book ii . ( octavo ) , chapter v. ( thrasher).--this gentleman be famous for his tail , which he use for a ferule in thrash his foe . he mount the folio whale 's back , and as he swim , he work his passage by flog he ; as some schoolmaster get along in the world by a similar process . still less be know of the thrasher than of the killer . both be outlaw , even in the lawless sea .
thus end book ii . ( octavo ) , and begin book iii . ( duodecimo ) .
duodecimoes.--these include the small whale . i. the huzza porpoise . ii . the algerine porpoise . iii . the mealy - mouthed porpoise .
to those who have not chance specially to study the subject , it may possibly seem strange , that fish not commonly exceed four or five foot should be marshal among whales -- a word , which , in the popular sense , always convey an idea of hugeness . but the creature set down above as duodecimoe be infallibly whale , by the term of my definition of what a whale be -- i.e. a spout fish , with a horizontal tail .
book iii . ( duodecimo ) , chapter 1 . ( huzza porpoise).--this be the common porpoise find almost all over the globe . the name be of my own bestowal ; for there be more than one sort of porpoise , and something must be do to distinguish they . i call he thus , because he always swim in hilarious shoal , which upon the broad sea keep toss themselves to heaven like cap in a fourth - of - july crowd . their appearance be generally hail with delight by the mariner . full of fine spirit , they invariably come from the breezy billow to windward . they be the lad that always live before the wind . they be account a lucky oman . if you yourself can withstand three cheer at behold these vivacious fish , then heaven help ye ; the spirit of godly gamesomeness be not in ye . a well - feed , plump huzza porpoise will yield you one good gallon of good oil . but the fine and delicate fluid extract from his jaw be exceedingly valuable . it be in request among jeweller and watchmaker . sailor put it on their hone . porpoise meat be good eating , you know . it may never have occur to you that a porpoise spout . indeed , his spout be so small that it be not very readily discernible . but the next time you have a chance , watch he ; and you will then see the great sperm whale himself in miniature .
book iii . ( duodecimo ) , chapter ii . ( algerine porpoise).--a pirate . very savage . he be only find , i think , in the pacific . he be somewhat large than the huzza porpoise , but much of the same general make . provoke he , and he will buckle to a shark . i have lower for he many time , but never yet see he capture .
book iii . ( duodecimo ) , chapter iii . ( mealy - mouthed porpoise).--the large kind of porpoise ; and only find in the pacific , so far as it be know . the only english name , by which he have hitherto be designate , be that of the fisher -- right - whale porpoise , from the circumstance that he be chiefly find in the vicinity of that folio . in shape , he differ in some degree from the huzza porpoise , be of a less rotund and jolly girth ; indeed , he be of quite a neat and gentleman - like figure . he have no fin on his back ( most other porpoise have ) , he have a lovely tail , and sentimental indian eye of a hazel hue . but his mealy - mouth spoil all . though his entire back down to his side fin be of a deep sable , yet a boundary line , distinct as the mark in a ship 's hull , call the " bright waist , " that line streak he from stem to stern , with two separate colour , black above and white below . the white comprise part of his head , and the whole of his mouth , which make he look as if he have just escape from a felonious visit to a meal - bag . a most mean and mealy aspect ! his oil be much like that of the common porpoise .
beyond the duodecimo , this system do not proceed , inasmuch as the porpoise be the small of the whale . above , you have all the leviathans of note . but there be a rabble of uncertain , fugitive , half - fabulous whale , which , as an american whaleman , i know by reputation , but not personally . i shall enumerate they by their fore - castle appellation ; for possibly such a list may be valuable to future investigator , who may complete what i have here but begin . if any of the follow whale , shall hereafter be catch and mark , then he can readily be incorporate into this system , accord to his folio , octavo , or duodecimo magnitude:--the bottle - nose whale ; the junk whale ; the pudding - headed whale ; the cape whale ; the leading whale ; the cannon whale ; the scragg whale ; the coppered whale ; the elephant whale ; the iceberg whale ; the quog whale ; the blue whale ; etc . from icelandic , dutch , and old english authority , there might be quote other list of uncertain whale , bless with all manner of uncouth name . but i omit they as altogether obsolete ; and can hardly help suspect they for mere sound , full of leviathanism , but signify nothing .
finally : it be state at the outset , that this system would not be here , and at once , perfect . you can not but plainly see that i have keep my word . but i now leave my cetological system stand thus unfinished , even as the great cathedral of cologne be leave , with the crane still stand upon the top of the uncompleted tower . for small erection may be finish by their first architect ; grand one , true one , ever leave the copestone to posterity . god keep i from ever complete anything . this whole book be but a draught -- nay , but the draught of a draught . oh , time , strength , cash , and patience !
chapter 33
the specksynder .
concern the officer of the whale - craft , this seem as good a place as any to set down a little domestic peculiarity on ship - board , arise from the existence of the harpooneer class of officer , a class unknown of course in any other marine than the whale - fleet .
the large importance attach to the harpooneer 's vocation be evince by the fact , that originally in the old dutch fishery , two century and more ago , the command of a whale ship be not wholly lodge in the person now call the captain , but be divide between he and an officer call the specksynder . literally this word mean fat - cutter ; usage , however , in time make it equivalent to chief harpooneer . in those day , the captain 's authority be restrict to the navigation and general management of the vessel ; while over the whale - hunt department and all its concern , the specksynder or chief harpooneer reign supreme . in the british greenland fishery , under the corrupted title of specksioneer , this old dutch official be still retain , but his former dignity be sadly abridge . at present he rank simply as senior harpooneer ; and as such , be but one of the captain 's more inferior subaltern . nevertheless , as upon the good conduct of the harpooneer the success of a whale voyage largely depend , and since in the american fishery he be not only an important officer in the boat , but under certain circumstance ( night watch on a whale ground ) the command of the ship 's deck be also his ; therefore the grand political maxim of the sea demand , that he should nominally live apart from the man before the mast , and be in some way distinguished as their professional superior ; though always , by they , familiarly regard as their social equal .
now , the grand distinction draw between officer and man at sea , be this -- the first life aft , the last forward . hence , in whale - ship and merchantman alike , the mate have their quarter with the captain ; and so , too , in most of the american whaler the harpooneer be lodge in the after part of the ship . that be to say , they take their meal in the captain 's cabin , and sleep in a place indirectly communicate with it .
though the long period of a southern whaling voyage ( by far the long of all voyage now or ever make by man ) , the peculiar peril of it , and the community of interest prevail among a company , all of whom , high or low , depend for their profit , not upon fix wage , but upon their common luck , together with their common vigilance , intrepidity , and hard work ; though all these thing do in some case tend to beget a less rigorous discipline than in merchantman generally ; yet , never mind how much like an old mesopotamian family these whaleman may , in some primitive instance , live together ; for all that , the punctilious external , at least , of the quarter - deck be seldom materially relaxed , and in no instance do away . indeed , many be the nantucket ship in which you will see the skipper parade his quarter - deck with an elated grandeur not surpass in any military navy ; nay , extort almost as much outward homage as if he wear the imperial purple , and not the shabbiest of pilot - cloth .
and though of all man the moody captain of the pequod be the least give to that sort of shallow assumption ; and though the only homage he ever exact , be implicit , instantaneous obedience ; though he require no man to remove the shoe from his foot ere step upon the quarter - deck ; and though there be time when , owe to peculiar circumstance connect with event hereafter to be detail , he address they in unusual term , whether of condescension or in terrorem , or otherwise ; yet even captain ahab be by no mean unobservant of the paramount form and usage of the sea .
nor , perhaps , will it fail to be eventually perceive , that behind those form and usage , as it be , he sometimes mask himself ; incidentally make use of they for other and more private end than they be legitimately intend to subserve . that certain sultanism of his brain , which have otherwise in a good degree remain unmanifested ; through those form that same sultanism become incarnate in an irresistible dictatorship . for be a man 's intellectual superiority what it will , it can never assume the practical , available supremacy over other man , without the aid of some sort of external art and entrenchment , always , in themselves , more or less paltry and base . this it be , that for ever keep god 's true prince of the empire from the world 's husting ; and leave the high honour that this air can give , to those man who become famous more through their infinite inferiority to the choice hide handful of the divine inert , than through their undoubted superiority over the dead level of the mass . such large virtue lurk in these small thing when extreme political superstition invest they , that in some royal instance even to idiot imbecility they have impart potency . but when , as in the case of nicholas the czar , the ring crown of geographical empire encircle an imperial brain ; then , the plebeian herds crouch abase before the tremendous centralization . nor , will the tragic dramatist who would depict mortal indomitableness in its full sweep and direct swing , ever forget a hint , incidentally so important in his art , as the one now allude to .
but ahab , my captain , still move before i in all his nantucket grimness and shagginess ; and in this episode touch emperor and king , i must not conceal that i have only to do with a poor old whale - hunter like he ; and , therefore , all outward majestical trapping and housing be deny i . oh , ahab ! what shall be grand in thee , it must need be pluck at from the sky , and dive for in the deep , and feature in the unbodied air !
chapter 34
the cabin - table .
it be noon ; and dough - boy , the steward , thrust his pale loaf - of - bread face from the cabin - scuttle , announce dinner to his lord and master ; who , sit in the lee quarter - boat , have just be take an observation of the sun ; and be now mutely reckon the latitude on the smooth , medallion - shape tablet , reserve for that daily purpose on the upper part of his ivory leg . from his complete inattention to the tiding , you would think that moody ahab have not hear his menial . but presently , catch hold of the mizen shroud , he swing himself to the deck , and in an even , unexhilarated voice , say , " dinner , mr. starbuck , " disappear into the cabin .
when the last echo of his sultan 's step have die away , and starbuck , the first emir , have every reason to suppose that he be seat , then starbuck rous from his quietude , take a few turn along the plank , and , after a grave peep into the binnacle , say , with some touch of pleasantness , " dinner , mr. stubb , " and descend the scuttle . the second emir lounge about the rig awhile , and then slightly shake the main brace , to see whether it will be all right with that important rope , he likewise take up the old burden , and with a rapid " dinner , mr. flask , " follow after his predecessor .
but the third emir , now see himself all alone on the quarter - deck , seem to feel relieved from some curious restraint ; for , tip all sort of know wink in all sort of direction , and kick off his shoe , he strike into a sharp but noiseless squall of a hornpipe right over the grand turk 's head ; and then , by a dexterous sleight , pitch his cap up into the mizentop for a shelf , he go down rollick so far at least as he remain visible from the deck , reverse all other procession , by bring up the rear with music . but ere step into the cabin doorway below , he pause , ship a new face altogether , and , then , independent , hilarious little flask enter king ahab 's presence , in the character of abjectus , or the slave .
it be not the least among the strange thing breed by the intense artificialness of sea - usage , that while in the open air of the deck some officer will , upon provocation , bear themselves boldly and defyingly enough towards their commander ; yet , ten to one , let those very officer the next moment go down to their customary dinner in that same commander 's cabin , and straightway their inoffensive , not to say deprecatory and humble air towards he , as he sit at the head of the table ; this be marvellous , sometimes most comical . wherefore this difference ? a problem ? perhaps not . to have be belshazzar , king of babylon ; and to have be belshazzar , not haughtily but courteously , therein certainly must have be some touch of mundane grandeur . but he who in the rightly regal and intelligent spirit preside over his own private dinner - table of invite guest , that man 's unchallenged power and dominion of individual influence for the time ; that man 's royalty of state transcend belshazzar 's , for belshazzar be not the great . who have but once din his friend , have taste what it be to be caesar . it be a witchery of social czarship which there be no withstanding . now , if to this consideration you superadd the official supremacy of a ship - master , then , by inference , you will derive the cause of that peculiarity of sea - life just mention .
over his ivory - inlay table , ahab preside like a mute , maned sea - lion on the white coral beach , surround by his warlike but still deferential cub . in his own proper turn , each officer wait to be serve . they be as little child before ahab ; and yet , in ahab , there seem not to lurk the small social arrogance . with one mind , their intent eye all fasten upon the old man 's knife , as he carve the chief dish before he . i do not suppose that for the world they would have profane that moment with the slight observation , even upon so neutral a topic as the weather . no ! and when reach out his knife and fork , between which the slice of beef be lock , ahab thereby motion starbuck 's plate towards he , the mate receive his meat as though receive alm ; and cut it tenderly ; and a little start if , perchance , the knife graze against the plate ; and chew it noiselessly ; and swallow it , not without circumspection . for , like the coronation banquet at frankfort , where the german emperor profoundly din with the seven imperial electors , so these cabin meal be somehow solemn meal , eat in awful silence ; and yet at table old ahab forbid not conversation ; only he himself be dumb . what a relief it be to choke stubb , when a rat make a sudden racket in the hold below . and poor little flask , he be the young son , and little boy of this weary family party . his be the shinbone of the saline beef ; his would have be the drumstick . for flask to have presume to help himself , this must have seem to he tantamount to larceny in the first degree . have he help himself at that table , doubtless , never more would he have be able to hold his head up in this honest world ; nevertheless , strange to say , ahab never forbid he . and have flask help himself , the chance be ahab have never so much as notice it . least of all , do flask presume to help himself to butter . whether he think the owner of the ship deny it to he , on account of its clot his clear , sunny complexion ; or whether he deem that , on so long a voyage in such marketless water , butter be at a premium , and therefore be not for he , a subaltern ; however it be , flask , alas ! be a butterless man !
another thing . flask be the last person down at the dinner , and flask be the first man up . consider ! for hereby flask 's dinner be badly jammed in point of time . starbuck and stubb both have the start of he ; and yet they also have the privilege of lounge in the rear . if stubb even , who be but a peg high than flask , happen to have but a small appetite , and soon show symptom of conclude his repast , then flask must bestir himself , he will not get more than three mouthful that day ; for it be against holy usage for stubb to precede flask to the deck . therefore it be that flask once admit in private , that ever since he have arise to the dignity of an officer , from that moment he have never know what it be to be otherwise than hungry , more or less . for what he eat do not so much relieve his hunger , as keep it immortal in he . peace and satisfaction , think flask , have for ever depart from my stomach . i be an officer ; but , how i wish i could fish a bit of old - fashioned beef in the forecastle , as i use to when i be before the mast . there be the fruit of promotion now ; there be the vanity of glory : there be the insanity of life ! besides , if it be so that any mere sailor of the pequod have a grudge against flask in flask 's official capacity , all that sailor have to do , in order to obtain ample vengeance , be to go aft at dinner - time , and get a peep at flask through the cabin sky - light , sit silly and dumfoundere before awful ahab .
now , ahab and his three mate form what may be call the first table in the pequod 's cabin . after their departure , take place in invert order to their arrival , the canvas cloth be clear , or rather be restore to some hurried order by the pallid steward . and then the three harpooneer be bid to the feast , they be its residuary legatee . they make a sort of temporary servant ' hall of the high and mighty cabin .
in strange contrast to the hardly tolerable constraint and nameless invisible domineering of the captain 's table , be the entire care - free license and ease , the almost frantic democracy of those inferior fellow the harpooneer . while their master , the mate , seem afraid of the sound of the hinge of their own jaw , the harpooneer chew their food with such a relish that there be a report to it . they din like lord ; they fill their belly like indian ship all day load with spice . such portentous appetite have queequeg and tashtego , that to fill out the vacancy make by the previous repast , often the pale dough - boy be fain to bring on a great baron of salt - junk , seemingly quarried out of the solid ox . and if he be not lively about it , if he do not go with a nimble hop - skip - and - jump , then tashtego have an ungentlemanly way of accelerate he by dart a fork at his back , harpoon - wise . and once daggoo , seize with a sudden humor , assist dough - boy 's memory by snatch he up bodily , and thrust his head into a great empty wooden trencher , while tashtego , knife in hand , begin lay out the circle preliminary to scalp he . he be naturally a very nervous , shudder sort of little fellow , this bread - face steward ; the progeny of a bankrupt baker and a hospital nurse . and what with the stand spectacle of the black terrific ahab , and the periodical tumultuous visitation of these three savage , dough - boy 's whole life be one continual lip - quiver . commonly , after see the harpooneer furnish with all thing they demand , he would escape from their clutch into his little pantry adjoining , and fearfully peep out at they through the blind of its door , till all be over .
it be a sight to see queequeg seat over against tashtego , oppose his file tooth to the indian 's : crosswise to they , daggoo seat on the floor , for a bench would have bring his hearse - plume head to the low carline ; at every motion of his colossal limb , make the low cabin framework to shake , as when an african elephant go passenger in a ship . but for all this , the great negro be wonderfully abstemious , not to say dainty . it seem hardly possible that by such comparatively small mouthful he could keep up the vitality diffuse through so broad , baronial , and superb a person . but , doubtless , this noble savage fed strong and drink deep of the abound element of air ; and through his dilated nostril snuff in the sublime life of the world . not by beef or by bread , be giant make or nourish . but queequeg , he have a mortal , barbaric smack of the lip in eating -- an ugly sound enough -- so much so , that the tremble dough - boy almost look to see whether any mark of tooth lurk in his own lean arm . and when he would hear tashtego sing out for he to produce himself , that his bone might be pick , the simple - witted steward all but shatter the crockery hang round he in the pantry , by his sudden fit of the palsy . nor do the whetstone which the harpooneer carry in their pocket , for their lance and other weapon ; and with which whetstone , at dinner , they would ostentatiously sharpen their knife ; that grating sound do not at all tend to tranquillize poor dough - boy . how could he forget that in his island day , queequeg , for one , must certainly have be guilty of some murderous , convivial indiscretion . alas ! dough - boy ! hard fare the white waiter who wait upon cannibal . not a napkin should he carry on his arm , but a buckler . in good time , though , to his great delight , the three salt - sea warrior would rise and depart ; to his credulous , fable - monger ear , all their martial bone jingle in they at every step , like moorish scimetar in scabbard .
but , though these barbarian din in the cabin , and nominally live there ; still , be anything but sedentary in their habit , they be scarcely ever in it except at mealtime , and just before sleeping - time , when they pass through it to their own peculiar quarter .
in this one matter , ahab seem no exception to most american whale captain , who , as a set , rather incline to the opinion that by right the ship 's cabin belong to they ; and that it be by courtesy alone that anybody else be , at any time , permit there . so that , in real truth , the mate and harpooneer of the pequod might more properly be say to have live out of the cabin than in it . for when they do enter it , it be something as a street - door enter a house ; turn inward for a moment , only to be turn out the next ; and , as a permanent thing , reside in the open air . nor do they lose much hereby ; in the cabin be no companionship ; socially , ahab be inaccessible . though nominally include in the census of christendom , he be still an alien to it . he live in the world , as the last of the grisly bears live in settle missouri . and as when spring and summer have depart , that wild logan of the wood , bury himself in the hollow of a tree , live out the winter there , suck his own paw ; so , in his inclement , howl old age , ahab 's soul , shut up in the caved trunk of his body , there feed upon the sullen paw of its gloom !
chapter 35
the mast - head .
it be during the more pleasant weather , that in due rotation with the other seaman my first mast - head come round .
in most american whaleman the mast - head be man almost simultaneously with the vessel 's leave her port ; even though she may have fifteen thousand mile , and more , to sail ere reach her proper cruising ground . and if , after a three , four , or five year ' voyage she be draw nigh home with anything empty in she -- say , an empty vial even -- then , her mast - head be keep man to the last ; and not till her skysail - pole sail in among the spire of the port , do she altogether relinquish the hope of capture one whale more .
now , as the business of stand mast - head , ashore or afloat , be a very ancient and interesting one , let we in some measure expatiate here . i take it , that the early stander of mast - head be the old egyptians ; because , in all my research , i find none prior to they . for though their progenitor , the builder of babel , must doubtless , by their tower , have intend to rear the lofty mast - head in all asia , or africa either ; yet ( ere the final truck be put to it ) as that great stone mast of theirs may be say to have go by the board , in the dread gale of god 's wrath ; therefore , we can not give these babel builder priority over the egyptians . and that the egyptians be a nation of mast - head stander , be an assertion base upon the general belief among archaeologist , that the first pyramid be found for astronomical purpose : a theory singularly support by the peculiar stair - like formation of all four side of those edifice ; whereby , with prodigious long uplifting of their leg , those old astronomer be will not to mount to the apex , and sing out for new star ; even as the look - out of a modern ship sing out for a sail , or a whale just bear in sight . in saint stylites , the famous christian hermit of old time , who build he a lofty stone pillar in the desert and spend the whole latter portion of his life on its summit , hoist his food from the ground with a tackle ; in he we have a remarkable instance of a dauntless stander - of - mast - head ; who be not to be drive from his place by fog or frost , rain , hail , or sleet ; but valiantly face everything out to the last , literally die at his post . of modern stander - of - mast - head we have but a lifeless set ; mere stone , iron , and bronze man ; who , though well capable of face out a stiff gale , be still entirely incompetent to the business of sing out upon discover any strange sight . there be napoleon ; who , upon the top of the column of vendome , stand with arm fold , some one hundred and fifty foot in the air ; careless , now , who rule the deck below ; whether louis philippe , louis blanc , or louis the devil . great washington , too , stand high aloft on his tower main - mast in baltimore , and like one of hercules ' pillar , his column mark that point of human grandeur beyond which few mortal will go . admiral nelson , also , on a capstan of gun - metal , stand his mast - head in trafalgar square ; and ever when most obscure by that london smoke , token be yet give that a hidden hero be there ; for where there be smoke , must be fire . but neither great washington , nor napoleon , nor nelson , will answer a single hail from below , however madly invoke to befriend by their counsel the distract deck upon which they gaze ; however it may be surmise , that their spirit penetrate through the thick haze of the future , and descry what shoal and what rock must be shun .
it may seem unwarrantable to couple in any respect the mast - head stander of the land with those of the sea ; but that in truth it be not so , be plainly evince by an item for which obed macy , the sole historian of nantucket , stand accountable . the worthy obed tell we , that in the early time of the whale fishery , ere ship be regularly launch in pursuit of the game , the people of that island erect lofty spar along the sea - coast , to which the look - out ascend by mean of nailed cleat , something as fowl go upstairs in a hen - house . a few year ago this same plan be adopt by the bay whaleman of new zealand , who , upon descry the game , give notice to the ready - manned boat nigh the beach . but this custom have now become obsolete ; turn we then to the one proper mast - head , that of a whale - ship at sea . the three mast - head be keep man from sun - rise to sun - set ; the seaman take their regular turn ( as at the helm ) , and relieve each other every two hour . in the serene weather of the tropic it be exceedingly pleasant the mast - head ; nay , to a dreamy meditative man it be delightful . there you stand , a hundred foot above the silent deck , stride along the deep , as if the mast be gigantic stilt , while beneath you and between your leg , as it be , swim the huge monster of the sea , even as ship once sail between the boot of the famous colossus at old rhodes . there you stand , lose in the infinite series of the sea , with nothing ruffle but the wave . the trance ship indolently roll ; the drowsy trade wind blow ; everything resolve you into languor . for the most part , in this tropic whale life , a sublime uneventfulness invest you ; you hear no news ; read no gazette ; extras with startling account of commonplace never delude you into unnecessary excitement ; you hear of no domestic affliction ; bankrupt security ; fall of stock ; be never trouble with the thought of what you shall have for dinner -- for all your meal for three year and more be snugly stow in cask , and your bill of fare be immutable .
in one of those southern whalesman , on a long three or four year ' voyage , as often happen , the sum of the various hour you spend at the mast - head would amount to several entire month . and it be much to be deplore that the place to which you devote so considerable a portion of the whole term of your natural life , should be so sadly destitute of anything approach to a cosy inhabitiveness , or adapt to breed a comfortable localness of feeling , such as pertain to a bed , a hammock , a hearse , a sentry box , a pulpit , a coach , or any other of those small and snug contrivance in which man temporarily isolate themselves . your most usual point of perch be the head of the t ' gallant - mast , where you stand upon two thin parallel stick ( almost peculiar to whaleman ) call the t ' gallant cross - tree . here , toss about by the sea , the beginner feel about as cosy as he would stand on a bull 's horn . to be sure , in cold weather you may carry your house aloft with you , in the shape of a watch - coat ; but properly speak the thick watch - coat be no more of a house than the unclad body ; for as the soul be glue inside of its fleshy tabernacle , and can not freely move about in it , nor even move out of it , without run great risk of perish ( like an ignorant pilgrim cross the snowy alps in winter ) ; so a watch - coat be not so much of a house as it be a mere envelope , or additional skin encase you . you can not put a shelf or chest of drawer in your body , and no more can you make a convenient closet of your watch - coat .
concern all this , it be much to be deplore that the mast - head of a southern whale ship be unprovide with those enviable little tent or pulpit , call crow's - nests , in which the look - out of a greenland whaler be protect from the inclement weather of the frozen sea . in the fireside narrative of captain sleet , entitle " a voyage among the icebergs , in quest of the greenland whale , and incidentally for the re - discovery of the lost icelandic colonies of old greenland ; " in this admirable volume , all stander of mast - head be furnish with a charmingly circumstantial account of the then recently invent crow's - nest of the glacier , which be the name of captain sleet 's good craft . he call it the sleet 's crow's - nest , in honour of himself ; he be the original inventor and patentee , and free from all ridiculous false delicacy , and hold that if we call our own child after our own name ( we father be the original inventor and patentee ) , so likewise should we denominate after ourselves any other apparatus we may beget . in shape , the sleet 's crow' - nest be something like a large tierce or pipe ; it be open above , however , where it be furnish with a movable side - screen to keep to windward of your head in a hard gale . be fix on the summit of the mast , you ascend into it through a little trap - hatch in the bottom . on the after side , or side next the stern of the ship , be a comfortable seat , with a locker underneath for umbrella , comforter , and coat . in front be a leather rack , in which to keep your speaking trumpet , pipe , telescope , and other nautical convenience . when captain sleet in person stand his mast - head in this crow' - nest of his , he tell we that he always have a rifle with he ( also fix in the rack ) , together with a powder flask and shoot , for the purpose of pop off the stray narwhale , or vagrant sea unicorn infest those water ; for you can not successfully shoot at they from the deck owe to the resistance of the water , but to shoot down upon they be a very different thing . now , it be plainly a labor of love for captain sleet to describe , as he do , all the little detailed convenience of his crow' - nest ; but though he so enlarge upon many of these , and though he treat we to a very scientific account of his experiment in this crow' - nest , with a small compass he keep there for the purpose of counteract the error result from what be call the " local attraction " of all binnacle magnet ; an error ascribable to the horizontal vicinity of the iron in the ship 's plank , and in the glacier 's case , perhaps , to there having be so many break - down blacksmith among her crew ; i say , that though the captain be very discreet and scientific here , yet , for all his learn " binnacle deviation , " " azimuth compass observation , " and " approximate error , " he know very well , captain sleet , that he be not so much immerse in those profound magnetic meditation , as to fail be attract occasionally towards that well replenish little case - bottle , so nicely tuck in on one side of his crow 's nest , within easy reach of his hand . though , upon the whole , i greatly admire and even love the brave , the honest , and learn captain ; yet i take it very ill of he that he should so utterly ignore that case - bottle , see what a faithful friend and comforter it must have be , while with mittened finger and hooded head he be study the mathematic aloft there in that bird 's nest within three or four perch of the pole .
but if we southern whale - fisher be not so snugly house aloft as captain sleet and his greenlandmen be ; yet that disadvantage be greatly counter - balanced by the widely contrast serenity of those seductive sea in which we south fisher mostly float . for one , i use to lounge up the rigging very leisurely , rest in the top to have a chat with queequeg , or any one else off duty whom i might find there ; then ascend a little way far , and throw a lazy leg over the top - sail yard , take a preliminary view of the watery pasture , and so at last mount to my ultimate destination .
let i make a clean breast of it here , and frankly admit that i keep but sorry guard . with the problem of the universe revolve in i , how could i -- be leave completely to myself at such a thought - engendering altitude -- how could i but lightly hold my obligation to observe all whale - ship ' standing order , " keep your weather eye open , and sing out every time . "
and let i in this place movingly admonish you , ye ship - owner of nantucket ! beware of enlist in your vigilant fishery any lad with lean brow and hollow eye ; give to unseasonable meditativeness ; and who offer to ship with the phaedon instead of bowditch in his head . beware of such an one , i say ; your whale must be see before they can be kill ; and this sunken - eyed young platonist will tow you ten wake round the world , and never make you one pint of sperm the rich . nor be these monition at all unneeded . for nowadays , the whale - fishery furnish an asylum for many romantic , melancholy , and absent - minded young man , disgust with the carking care of earth , and seek sentiment in tar and blubber . childe harold not unfrequently perch himself upon the mast - head of some luckless disappointed whale - ship , and in moody phrase ejaculates:--
" roll on , thou deep and dark blue ocean , roll ! ten thousand blubber - hunter sweep over thee in vain . "
very often do the captain of such ship take those absent - minded young philosopher to task , upbraid they with not feel sufficient " interest " in the voyage ; half - hint that they be so hopelessly lose to all honourable ambition , as that in their secret soul they would rather not see whale than otherwise . but all in vain ; those young platonists have a notion that their vision be imperfect ; they be short - sighted ; what use , then , to strain the visual nerve ? they have leave their opera - glass at home .
" why , thou monkey , " say a harpooneer to one of these lad , " we have be cruise now hard upon three year , and thou hast not raise a whale yet . whale be scarce as hen 's tooth whenever thou art up here . " perhaps they be ; or perhaps there might have be shoal of they in the far horizon ; but lull into such an opium - like listlessness of vacant , unconscious reverie be this absent - minded youth by the blend cadence of wave with thought , that at last he lose his identity ; take the mystic ocean at his foot for the visible image of that deep , blue , bottomless soul , pervade mankind and nature ; and every strange , half - see , gliding , beautiful thing that elude he ; every dimly - discover , uprise fin of some undiscernible form , seem to he the embodiment of those elusive thought that only people the soul by continually flit through it . in this enchant mood , thy spirit ebb away to whence it come ; become diffused through time and space ; like crammer 's sprinkle pantheistic ash , form at last a part of every shore the round globe over .
there be no life in thee , now , except that rock life impart by a gently rolling ship ; by she , borrow from the sea ; by the sea , from the inscrutable tide of god . but while this sleep , this dream be on ye , move your foot or hand an inch ; slip your hold at all ; and your identity come back in horror . over descartian vortex you hover . and perhaps , at mid - day , in the fair weather , with one half - throttle shriek you drop through that transparent air into the summer sea , no more to rise for ever . heed it well , ye pantheists !
chapter 36
the quarter - deck .
( enter ahab : then , all )
it be not a great while after the affair of the pipe , that one morning shortly after breakfast , ahab , as be his will not , ascend the cabin - gangway to the deck . there most sea - captain usually walk at that hour , as country gentleman , after the same meal , take a few turn in the garden .
soon his steady , ivory stride be hear , as to and fro he pace his old round , upon plank so familiar to his tread , that they be all over dent , like geological stone , with the peculiar mark of his walk . do you fixedly gaze , too , upon that rib and dent brow ; there also , you would see still stranger foot - print -- the foot - print of his one unsleeping , ever - pace thought .
but on the occasion in question , those dent look deep , even as his nervous step that morning leave a deep mark . and , so full of his thought be ahab , that at every uniform turn that he make , now at the main - mast and now at the binnacle , you could almost see that thought turn in he as he turn , and pace in he as he pace ; so completely possess he , indeed , that it all but seem the inward mould of every outer movement .
" d'ye mark he , flask ? " whisper stubb ; " the chick that be in he peck the shell . ' twill soon be out . "
the hour wear on;--ahab now shut up within his cabin ; anon , pace the deck , with the same intense bigotry of purpose in his aspect .
it draw near the close of day . suddenly he come to a halt by the bulwark , and insert his bone leg into the auger - hole there , and with one hand grasp a shroud , he order starbuck to send everybody aft .
" sir ! " say the mate , astonish at an order seldom or never give on ship - board except in some extraordinary case .
" send everybody aft , " repeat ahab . " mast - head , there ! come down ! "
when the entire ship 's company be assemble , and with curious and not wholly unapprehensive face , be eye he , for he look not unlike the weather horizon when a storm be come up , ahab , after rapidly glance over the bulwark , and then dart his eye among the crew , start from his standpoint ; and as though not a soul be nigh he resume his heavy turn upon the deck . with bent head and half - slouch hat he continue to pace , unmindful of the wonder whispering among the man ; till stubb cautiously whisper to flask , that ahab must have summon they there for the purpose of witness a pedestrian feat . but this do not last long . vehemently pause , he cried:--
" what do ye do when ye see a whale , man ? "
" sing out for he ! " be the impulsive rejoinder from a score of clubbed voice .
" good ! " cry ahab , with a wild approval in his tone ; observe the hearty animation into which his unexpected question have so magnetically throw they .
" and what do ye next , man ? "
" low away , and after he ! "
" and what tune be it ye pull to , man ? "
" a dead whale or a stove boat ! "
more and more strangely and fiercely glad and approving , grow the countenance of the old man at every shout ; while the mariner begin to gaze curiously at each other , as if marvel how it be that they themselves become so excited at such seemingly purposeless question .
but , they be all eagerness again , as ahab , now half - revolve in his pivot - hole , with one hand reach high up a shroud , and tightly , almost convulsively grasp it , address they thus:--
" all ye mast - header have before now hear i give order about a white whale . look ye ! d'ye see this spanish ounce of gold?"--holde up a broad bright coin to the sun--"it be a sixteen dollar piece , man . d'ye see it ? mr. starbuck , hand i yon top - maul . "
while the mate be get the hammer , ahab , without speak , be slowly rub the gold piece against the skirt of his jacket , as if to heighten its lustre , and without use any word be meanwhile lowly hum to himself , produce a sound so strangely muffle and inarticulate that it seem the mechanical humming of the wheel of his vitality in he .
receive the top - maul from starbuck , he advance towards the main - mast with the hammer uplifted in one hand , exhibit the gold with the other , and with a high raise voice exclaim : " whosoever of ye raise i a white - head whale with a wrinkle brow and a crooked jaw ; whosoever of ye raise i that white - head whale , with three hole puncture in his starboard fluke -- look ye , whosoever of ye raise i that same white whale , he shall have this gold ounce , my boy ! "
" huzza ! huzza ! " cry the seaman , as with swing tarpaulin they hail the act of nail the gold to the mast .
" it be a white whale , i say , " resume ahab , as he throw down the topmaul : " a white whale . skin your eye for he , man ; look sharp for white water ; if ye see but a bubble , sing out . "
all this while tashtego , daggoo , and queequeg have look on with even more intense interest and surprise than the rest , and at the mention of the wrinkle brow and crook jaw they have start as if each be separately touch by some specific recollection .
" captain ahab , " say tashtego , " that white whale must be the same that some call moby dick . "
" moby dick ? " shout ahab . " do ye know the white whale then , tash ? "
" do he fan - tail a little curious , sir , before he go down ? " say the gay - header deliberately .
" and have he a curious spout , too , " say daggoo , " very bushy , even for a parmacetty , and mighty quick , captain ahab ? "
" and he have one , two , three -- oh ! good many iron in he hide , too , captain , " cry queequeg disjointedly , " all twiske - tee be - twisk , like he -- him-- " falter hard for a word , and screw his hand round and round as though uncork a bottle--"like he -- him-- "
" corkscrew ! " cry ahab , " aye , queequeg , the harpoon lie all twist and wrench in he ; aye , daggoo , his spout be a big one , like a whole shock of wheat , and white as a pile of our nantucket wool after the great annual sheep - shearing ; aye , tashtego , and he fan - tail like a split jib in a squall . death and devil ! man , it be moby dick ye have see -- moby dick -- moby dick ! "
" captain ahab , " say starbuck , who , with stubb and flask , have thus far be eye his superior with increase surprise , but at last seem strike with a thought which somewhat explain all the wonder . " captain ahab , i have hear of moby dick -- but it be not moby dick that take off thy leg ? "
" who tell thee that ? " cry ahab ; then pause , " aye , starbuck ; aye , my heartie all round ; it be moby dick that dismaste i ; moby dick that bring i to this dead stump i stand on now . aye , aye , " he shout with a terrific , loud , animal sob , like that of a heart - stricken moose ; " aye , aye ! it be that accurse white whale that razeed i ; make a poor pegging lubber of i for ever and a day ! " then toss both arm , with measureless imprecation he shout out : " aye , aye ! and i will chase he round good hope , and round the horn , and round the norway maelstrom , and round perdition 's flame before i give he up . and this be what ye have ship for , man ! to chase that white whale on both side of land , and over all side of earth , till he spout black blood and roll fin out . what say ye , man , will ye splice hand on it , now ? i think ye do look brave . "
" aye , aye ! " shout the harpooneer and seaman , run close to the excited old man : " a sharp eye for the white whale ; a sharp lance for moby dick ! "
" god bless ye , " he seem to half sob and half shout . " god bless ye , man . steward ! go draw the great measure of grog . but what be this long face about , mr. starbuck ; wilt thou not chase the white whale ? art not game for moby dick ? "
" i be game for his crooked jaw , and for the jaw of death too , captain ahab , if it fairly come in the way of the business we follow ; but i come here to hunt whale , not my commander 's vengeance . how many barrel will thy vengeance yield thee even if thou gettest it , captain ahab ? it will not fetch thee much in our nantucket market . "
" nantucket market ! hoot ! but come close , starbuck ; thou requirest a little low layer . if money be to be the measurer , man , and the accountant have compute their great counting - house the globe , by girdle it with guineas , one to every three part of an inch ; then , let i tell thee , that my vengeance will fetch a great premium here ! "
" he smite his chest , " whisper stubb , " what be that for ? methink it ring most vast , but hollow . "
" vengeance on a dumb brute ! " cry starbuck , " that simply smote thee from blindest instinct ! madness ! to be enrage with a dumb thing , captain ahab , seem blasphemous . "
" hark ye yet again -- the little low layer . all visible object , man , be but as pasteboard mask . but in each event -- in the living act , the undoubted deed -- there , some unknown but still reason thing put forth the moulding of its feature from behind the unreasone mask . if man will strike , strike through the mask ! how can the prisoner reach outside except by thrust through the wall ? to i , the white whale be that wall , shove near to i . sometimes i think there be naught beyond . but ' tis enough . he task i ; he heap i ; i see in he outrageous strength , with an inscrutable malice sinewe it . that inscrutable thing be chiefly what i hate ; and be the white whale agent , or be the white whale principal , i will wreak that hate upon he . talk not to i of blasphemy , man ; i would strike the sun if it insult i . for could the sun do that , then could i do the other ; since there be ever a sort of fair play herein , jealousy preside over all creation . but not my master , man , be even that fair play . who be over i ? truth hath no confine . take off thine eye ! more intolerable than fiend ' glaring be a doltish stare ! so , so ; thou redden and palest ; my heat have melt thee to anger - glow . but look ye , starbuck , what be say in heat , that thing unsay itself . there be man from whom warm word be small indignity . i mean not to incense thee . let it go . look ! see yonder turkish cheek of spot tawn -- living , breathe picture paint by the sun . the pagan leopard -- the unrecking and unworshipping thing , that live ; and seek , and give no reason for the torrid life they feel ! the crew , man , the crew ! be they not one and all with ahab , in this matter of the whale ? see stubb ! he laugh ! see yonder chilian ! he snort to think of it . stand up amid the general hurricane , thy one tost sapling can not , starbuck ! and what be it ? reckon it . ' tis but to help strike a fin ; no wondrous feat for starbuck . what be it more ? from this one poor hunt , then , the good lance out of all nantucket , surely he will not hang back , when every foremast - hand have clutch a whetstone ? ah ! constraining seize thee ; i see ! the billow lift thee ! speak , but speak!--aye , aye ! thy silence , then , that voice thee . ( aside ) something shoot from my dilated nostril , he have inhale it in his lung . starbuck now be mine ; can not oppose i now , without rebellion . "
" god keep me!--keep we all ! " murmur starbuck , lowly .
but in his joy at the enchant , tacit acquiescence of the mate , ahab do not hear his foreboding invocation ; nor yet the low laugh from the hold ; nor yet the presage vibration of the wind in the cordage ; nor yet the hollow flap of the sail against the mast , as for a moment their heart sink in . for again starbuck 's downcast eye light up with the stubbornness of life ; the subterranean laugh die away ; the wind blow on ; the sail fill out ; the ship heave and roll as before . ah , ye admonition and warning ! why stay ye not when ye come ? but rather be ye prediction than warning , ye shadow ! yet not so much prediction from without , as verification of the foregoing thing within . for with little external to constrain we , the innermost necessity in our being , these still drive we on .
" the measure ! the measure ! " cry ahab .
receive the brim pewter , and turn to the harpooneer , he order they to produce their weapon . then range they before he near the capstan , with their harpoon in their hand , while his three mate stand at his side with their lance , and the rest of the ship 's company form a circle round the group ; he stand for an instant searchingly eye every man of his crew . but those wild eye meet his , as the bloodshot eye of the prairie wolf meet the eye of their leader , ere he rush on at their head in the trail of the bison ; but , alas ! only to fall into the hidden snare of the indian .
" drink and pass ! " he cry , hand the heavy charge flagon to the near seaman . " the crew alone now drink . round with it , round ! short draught -- long swallow , man ; ' tis hot as satan 's hoof . so , so ; it go round excellently . it spiralize in ye ; fork out at the serpent - snap eye . well do ; almost drain . that way it go , this way it come . hand it i -- here be a hollow ! man , ye seem the year ; so brim life be gulp and go . steward , refill !
" attend now , my brave . i have muster ye all round this capstan ; and ye mate , flank i with your lance ; and ye harpooneer , stand there with your iron ; and ye , stout mariner , ring i in , that i may in some sort revive a noble custom of my fisherman father before i . o man , you will yet see that -- ha ! boy , come back ? bad penny come not soon . hand it i . why , now , this pewter have run brimming again , were't not thou st. vitus ' imp -- away , thou ague !
" advance , ye mate ! cross your lance full before i . well do ! let i touch the axis . " so say , with extended arm , he grasp the three level , radiate lance at their cross centre ; while so do , suddenly and nervously twitch they ; meanwhile , glance intently from starbuck to stubb ; from stubb to flask . it seem as though , by some nameless , interior volition , he would fain have shock into they the same fiery emotion accumulate within the leyden jar of his own magnetic life . the three mate quail before his strong , sustain , and mystic aspect . stubb and flask look sideways from he ; the honest eye of starbuck fall downright .
" in vain ! " cry ahab ; " but , maybe , ' tis well . for do ye three but once take the full - forced shock , then mine own electric thing , that have perhaps expire from out i . perchance , too , it would have drop ye dead . perchance ye need it not . down lance ! and now , ye mate , i do appoint ye three cupbearer to my three pagan kinsman there -- yon three most honourable gentleman and nobleman , my valiant harpooneer . disdain the task ? what , when the great pope wash the foot of beggar , use his tiara for ewer ? oh , my sweet cardinal ! your own condescension , that shall bend ye to it . i do not order ye ; ye will it . cut your seizing and draw the pole , ye harpooneer ! "
silently obey the order , the three harpooneer now stand with the detached iron part of their harpoon , some three foot long , hold , barb up , before he .
" stab i not with that keen steel ! can not they ; can not they over ! know ye not the goblet end ? turn up the socket ! so , so ; now , ye cup - bearer , advance . the iron ! take they ; hold they while i fill ! " forthwith , slowly go from one officer to the other , he brim the harpoon socket with the fiery water from the pewter .
" now , three to three , ye stand . commend the murderous chalice ! bestow they , ye who be now make party to this indissoluble league . ha ! starbuck ! but the deed be do ! yon ratify sun now wait to sit upon it . drink , ye harpooneer ! drink and swear , ye man that man the deathful whaleboat 's bow -- death to moby dick ! god hunt we all , if we do not hunt moby dick to his death ! " the long , barbed steel goblet be lift ; and to cry and malediction against the white whale , the spirit be simultaneously quaff down with a hiss . starbuck pal , and turn , and shiver . once more , and finally , the replenish pewter go the round among the frantic crew ; when , wave his free hand to they , they all disperse ; and ahab retire within his cabin .
chapter 37
sunset .
the cabin ; by the stern windows ; ahab sit alone , and gaze out .
i leave a white and turbid wake ; pale water , paler cheek , where'er i sail . the envious billow sidelong swell to whelm my track ; let they ; but first i pass .
yonder , by ever - brim goblet 's rim , the warm wave blush like wine . the gold brow plumb the blue . the diver sun -- slow dive from noon -- go down ; my soul mount up ! she weary with her endless hill . be , then , the crown too heavy that i wear ? this iron crown of lombardy . yet be it bright with many a gem ; i the wearer , see not its far flashing ; but darkly feel that i wear that , that dazzlingly confound . ' tis iron -- that i know -- not gold . ' tis split , too -- that i feel ; the jagged edge gall i so , my brain seem to beat against the solid metal ; aye , steel skull , mine ; the sort that need no helmet in the most brain - batter fight !
dry heat upon my brow ? oh ! time be , when as the sunrise nobly spur i , so the sunset soothe . no more . this lovely light , it light not i ; all loveliness be anguish to i , since i can ne'er enjoy . gift with the high perception , i lack the low , enjoy power ; damned , most subtly and most malignantly ! damn in the midst of paradise ! good night -- good night ! ( wave his hand , he move from the window . )
' twas not so hard a task . i think to find one stubborn , at the least ; but my one cogged circle fit into all their various wheel , and they revolve . or , if you will , like so many ant - hill of powder , they all stand before i ; and i their match . oh , hard ! that to fire other , the match itself must need be waste ! what i have dare , i have will ; and what i have will , i will do ! they think i mad -- starbuck do ; but i be demoniac , i be madness madden ! that wild madness that be only calm to comprehend itself ! the prophecy be that i should be dismember ; and -- aye ! i lose this leg . i now prophesy that i will dismember my dismemberer . now , then , be the prophet and the fulfill one . that be more than ye , ye great god , ever be . i laugh and hoot at ye , ye cricket - player , ye pugilist , ye deaf burkes and blind bendigoes ! i will not say as schoolboy do to bully -- take some one of your own size ; do not pommel i ! no , ye've knock i down , and i be up again ; but ye have run and hide . come forth from behind your cotton bag ! i have no long gun to reach ye . come , ahab 's compliment to ye ; come and see if ye can swerve i . swerve i ? ye can not swerve i , else ye swerve yourself ! man have ye there . swerve i ? the path to my fix purpose be lay with iron rail , whereon my soul be groove to run . over unsounde gorge , through the rifle heart of mountain , under torrent ' bed , unerringly i rush ! naught 's an obstacle , naught 's an angle to the iron way !
chapter 38
dusk .
by the mainmast ; starbuck lean against it .
my soul be more than match ; she be overman ; and by a madman ! insufferable sting , that sanity should ground arm on such a field ! but he drill deep down , and blast all my reason out of i ! i think i see his impious end ; but feel that i must help he to it . will i , nill i , the ineffable thing have tie i to he ; tow i with a cable i have no knife to cut . horrible old man ! who be over he , he cries;--aye , he would be a democrat to all above ; look , how he lord it over all below ! oh ! i plainly see my miserable office,--to obey , rebel ; and bad yet , to hate with touch of pity ! for in his eye i read some lurid woe would shrivel i up , have i it . yet be there hope . time and tide flow wide . the hat whale have the round watery world to swim in , as the small gold - fish have its glassy globe . his heaven - insult purpose , god may wedge aside . i would up heart , be it not like lead . but my whole clock 's run down ; my heart the all - control weight , i have no key to lift again .
[ a burst of revelry from the forecastle . ]
oh , god ! to sail with such a heathen crew that have small touch of human mother in they ! whelp somewhere by the sharkish sea . the white whale be their demigorgon . hark ! the infernal orgy ! that revelry be forward ! mark the unfaltere silence aft ! methink it picture life . foremost through the sparkling sea shoot on the gay , embattle , banter bow , but only to drag dark ahab after it , where he brood within his sternward cabin , build over the dead water of the wake , and far on , hunt by its wolfish gurgling . the long howl thrill i through ! peace ! ye reveller , and set the watch ! oh , life ! ' tis in an hour like this , with soul beat down and hold to knowledge,--as wild , untutored thing be force to feed -- oh , life ! ' tis now that i do feel the latent horror in thee ! but ' tis not i ! that horror be out of i ! and with the soft feeling of the human in i , yet will i try to fight ye , ye grim , phantom future ! stand by i , hold i , bind i , o ye bless influence !
chapter 39
first night watch .
fore - top .
( stubb solus , and mend a brace . )
ha ! ha ! ha ! ha ! hem ! clear my throat!--i've been think over it ever since , and that ha , ha be the final consequence . why so ? because a laugh be the wise , easy answer to all that be queer ; and come what will , one comfort 's always leave -- that unfailing comfort be , it be all predestinate . i hear not all his talk with starbuck ; but to my poor eye starbuck then look something as i the other evening feel . be sure the old mogul have fix he , too . i twig it , know it ; have have the gift , might readily have prophesy it -- for when i clap my eye upon his skull i see it . well , stubb , wise stubb -- that be my title -- well , stubb , what of it , stubb ? here be a carcase . i know not all that may be come , but be it what it will , i will go to it laugh . such a waggish leering as lurk in all your horrible ! i feel funny . fa , la ! lirra , skirra ! what be my juicy little pear at home do now ? cry its eye out?--give a party to the last arrive harpooneer , i dare say , gay as a frigate 's pennant , and so be i -- fa , la ! lirra , skirra ! oh--
we will drink to - night with heart as light , to love , as gay and fleeting as bubble that swim , on the beaker 's brim , and break on the lip while meet .
a brave stave that -- who call ? mr. starbuck ? aye , aye , sir--(aside ) he be my superior , he have his too , if i be not mistaken.--aye , aye , sir , just through with this job -- come .
chapter 40
midnight , forecastle .
harpooneer and sailors .
( foresail rise and discover the watch standing , lounging , lean , and lie in various attitudes , all sing in chorus . )
farewell and adieu to you , spanish lady ! farewell and adieu to you , lady of spain ! our captain 's commanded.--
1st nantucket sailor . oh , boy , do not be sentimental ; it be bad for the digestion ! take a tonic , follow i ! ( sings , and all follow )
our captain stand upon the deck , a spy - glass in his hand , a viewing of those gallant whale that blow at every strand . oh , your tub in your boat , my boy , and by your brace stand , and we will have one of those fine whale , hand , boy , over hand ! so , be cheery , my lad ! may your heart never fail ! while the bold harpooner be strike the whale !
mate 's voice from the quarter - deck . eight bell there , forward !
2nd nantucket sailor . avast the chorus ! eight bell there ! d'ye hear , bell - boy ? strike the bell eight , thou pip ! thou blackling ! and let i call the watch . i have the sort of mouth for that -- the hogshead mouth . so , so , ( thrusts his head down the scuttle , ) star - bo - l - e - e - n - s , a - h - o - y ! eight bell there below ! tumble up !
dutch sailor . grand snooze to - night , maty ; fat night for that . i mark this in our old mogul 's wine ; it be quite as deaden to some as fillipe to other . we sing ; they sleep -- aye , lie down there , like ground - tier butt . at them again ! there , take this copper - pump , and hail them through it . tell them to avast dreaming of their lass . tell them it be the resurrection ; they must kiss their last , and come to judgment . that be the way -- that be it ; thy throat be not spoil with eat amsterdam butter .
french sailor . hist , boy ! let us have a jig or two before we ride to anchor in blanket bay . what say ye ? there come the other watch . stand by all leg ! pip ! little pip ! hurrah with your tambourine !
pip . ( sulky and sleepy ) do not know where it be .
french sailor . beat thy belly , then , and wag thy ear . jig it , man , i say ; merry 's the word ; hurrah ! damn i , will not you dance ? form , now , indian - file , and gallop into the double - shuffle ? throw yourself ! legs ! leg !
iceland sailor . i do not like your floor , maty ; it be too springy to my taste . i be use to ice - floor . i be sorry to throw cold water on the subject ; but excuse i .
maltese sailor . i too ; where be your girl ? who but a fool would take his left hand by his right , and say to himself , how d'ye do ? partner ! i must have partner !
sicilian sailor . aye ; girl and a green!--then i will hop with ye ; yea , turn grasshopper !
long - island sailor . well , well , ye sulky , there be plenty more of we . hoe corn when you may , say i. all leg go to harvest soon . ah ! here come the music ; now for it !
azore sailor . ( ascend , and pitching the tambourine up the scuttle . ) here you be , pip ; and there be the windlass - bitt ; up you mount ! now , boy ! ( the half of they dance to the tambourine ; some go below ; some sleep or lie among the coils of rigging . oaths a - plenty . )
azore sailor . ( dancing ) go it , pip ! bang it , bell - boy ! rig it , dig it , stig it , quig it , bell - boy ! make fire - fly ; break the jingler !
pip . jingler , you say?--there go another , drop off ; i pound it so .
china sailor . rattle thy tooth , then , and pound away ; make a pagoda of thyself .
french sailor . merry - mad ! hold up thy hoop , pip , till i jump through it ! split jibs ! tear yourself !
tashtego . ( quietly smoking ) that be a white man ; he call that fun : humph ! i save my sweat .
old manx sailor . i wonder whether those jolly lad bethink they of what they be dance over . i will dance over your grave , i will -- that be the bitter threat of your night - woman , that beat head - wind round corner . o christ ! to think of the green navy and the green - skulle crew ! well , well ; belike the whole world 's a ball , as you scholar have it ; and so ' tis right to make one ballroom of it . dance on , lad , you be young ; i be once .
3d nantucket sailor . spell oh!--whew ! this be bad than pull after whale in a calm -- give we a whiff , tash .
( they cease dancing , and gather in clusters . meantime the sky darkens -- the wind rise . )
lascar sailor . by brahma ! boy , it will be douse sail soon . the sky - bear , high - tide ganges turn to wind ! thou show thy black brow , seeva !
maltese sailor . ( recline and shake his cap . ) it be the wave -- the snow 's cap turn to jig it now . they will shake their tassel soon . now would all the wave be woman , then i would go drown , and chassee with they evermore ! there be naught so sweet on earth -- heaven may not match it!--as those swift glance of warm , wild bosom in the dance , when the over - arbore arm hide such ripe , burst grape .
sicilian sailor . ( reclining . ) tell i not of it ! hark ye , lad -- fleet interlacing of the limb -- lithe swaying -- coying -- fluttering ! lip ! heart ! hip ! all graze : uncease touch and go ! not taste , observe ye , else come satiety . eh , pagan ? ( nudging . )
tahitan sailor . ( recline on a mat . ) hail , holy nakedness of our dance girls!--the heeva - heeva ! ah ! low veil , high palm tahiti ! i still rest i on thy mat , but the soft soil have slide ! i see thee weave in the wood , my mat ! green the first day i bring ye thence ; now wear and wilt quite . ah me!--not thou nor i can bear the change ! how then , if so be transplant to yon sky ? hear i the roaring stream from pirohitee 's peak of spear , when they leap down the crag and drown the villages?--the blast ! the blast ! up , spine , and meet it ! ( leaps to his foot . )
portuguese sailor . how the sea roll swash ' gainst the side ! stand by for reefing , heartie ! the wind be just cross sword , pell - mell they will go lunge presently .
danish sailor . crack , crack , old ship ! so long as thou crack , thou holdest ! well do ! the mate there hold ye to it stiffly . he be no more afraid than the isle fort at cattegat , put there to fight the baltic with storm - lash gun , on which the sea - salt cake !
4th nantucket sailor . he have his order , mind ye that . i hear old ahab tell he he must always kill a squall , something as they burst a waterspout with a pistol -- fire your ship right into it !
english sailor . blood ! but that old man be a grand old cove ! we be the lad to hunt he up his whale !
all . aye ! aye !
old manx sailor . how the three pine shake ! pine be the hard sort of tree to live when shift to any other soil , and here there be none but the crew 's cursed clay . steady , helmsman ! steady . this be the sort of weather when brave heart snap ashore , and keel hull split at sea . our captain have his birthmark ; look yonder , boy , there be another in the sky -- lurid - like , ye see , all else pitch black .
daggoo . what of that ? who be afraid of black 's afraid of i ! i be quarried out of it !
spanish sailor . ( aside . ) he want to bully , ah!--the old grudge make i touchy ( advancing . ) aye , harpooneer , thy race be the undeniable dark side of mankind -- devilish dark at that . no offence .
daggoo ( grimly ) . none .
st . jago 's sailor . that spaniard 's mad or drunk . but that can not be , or else in his one case our old mogul 's fire - water be somewhat long in work .
5th nantucket sailor . what be that i see -- lightning ? yes .
spanish sailor . no ; daggoo show his tooth .
daggoo ( springing ) . swallow thine , mannikin ! white skin , white liver !
spanish sailor ( meeting him ) . knife thee heartily ! big frame , small spirit !
all . a row ! a row ! a row !
tashtego ( with a whiff ) . a row a'low , and a row aloft -- god and man -- both brawler ! humph !
belfast sailor . a row ! arrah a row ! the virgin be bless , a row ! plunge in with ye !
english sailor . fair play ! snatch the spaniard 's knife ! a ring , a ring !
old manx sailor . ready form . there ! the ringed horizon . in that ring cain strike abel . sweet work , right work ! no ? why then , god , mad'st thou the ring ?
mate 's voice from the quarter - deck . hand by the halyard ! in top - gallant sail ! stand by to reef topsail !
all . the squall ! the squall ! jump , my jolly ! ( they scatter . )
pip ( shrink under the windlass ) . jolly ? lord help such jolly ! crish , crash ! there go the jib - stay ! blang - whang ! god ! duck lower , pip , here come the royal yard ! it be bad than be in the whirl wood , the last day of the year ! who would go climb after chestnut now ? but there they go , all cursing , and here i do not . fine prospect to them ; they be on the road to heaven . hold on hard ! jimmini , what a squall ! but those chap there be bad yet -- they be your white squall , they . white squall ? white whale , shirr ! shirr ! here have i hear all their chat just now , and the white whale -- shirr ! shirr!--but speak of once ! and only this evening -- it make i jingle all over like my tambourine -- that anaconda of an old man swear them in to hunt he ! oh , thou big white god aloft there somewhere in yon darkness , have mercy on this small black boy down here ; preserve he from all man that have no bowel to feel fear !
chapter 41
moby dick .
i , ishmael , be one of that crew ; my shout have go up with the rest ; my oath have be weld with theirs ; and strong i shout , and more do i hammer and clinch my oath , because of the dread in my soul . a wild , mystical , sympathetical feeling be in i ; ahab 's quenchless feud seem mine . with greedy ear i learn the history of that murderous monster against whom i and all the other have take our oath of violence and revenge .
for some time past , though at interval only , the unaccompanied , seclude white whale have haunt those uncivilized sea mostly frequent by the sperm whale fisherman . but not all of they know of his existence ; only a few of they , comparatively , have knowingly see he ; while the number who as yet have actually and knowingly give battle to he , be small indeed . for , owe to the large number of whale - cruiser ; the disorderly way they be sprinkle over the entire watery circumference , many of they adventurously push their quest along solitary latitude , so as seldom or never for a whole twelvemonth or more on a stretch , to encounter a single news - tell sail of any sort ; the inordinate length of each separate voyage ; the irregularity of the time of sailing from home ; all these , with other circumstance , direct and indirect , long obstruct the spread through the whole world - wide whaling - fleet of the special individualizing tiding concern moby dick . it be hardly to be doubt , that several vessel report to have encounter , at such or such a time , or on such or such a meridian , a sperm whale of uncommon magnitude and malignity , which whale , after do great mischief to his assailant , have completely escape they ; to some mind it be not an unfair presumption , i say , that the whale in question must have be no other than moby dick . yet as of late the sperm whale fishery have be mark by various and not unfrequent instance of great ferocity , cunning , and malice in the monster attack ; therefore it be , that those who by accident ignorantly give battle to moby dick ; such hunter , perhaps , for the most part , be content to ascribe the peculiar terror he breed , more , as it be , to the peril of the sperm whale fishery at large , than to the individual cause . in that way , mostly , the disastrous encounter between ahab and the whale have hitherto be popularly regard .
and as for those who , previously hear of the white whale , by chance catch sight of he ; in the beginning of the thing they have every one of they , almost , as boldly and fearlessly lower for he , as for any other whale of that specie . but at length , such calamity do ensue in these assault -- not restrict to sprain wrist and ankle , broken limb , or devouring amputation -- but fatal to the last degree of fatality ; those repeat disastrous repulse , all accumulate and pile their terror upon moby dick ; those thing have go far to shake the fortitude of many brave hunter , to whom the story of the white whale have eventually come .
nor do wild rumor of all sort fail to exaggerate , and still the more horrify the true history of these deadly encounter . for not only do fabulous rumor naturally grow out of the very body of all surprising terrible events,--as the smite tree give birth to its fungus ; but , in maritime life , far more than in that of terra firma , wild rumor abound , wherever there be any adequate reality for they to cling to . and as the sea surpass the land in this matter , so the whale fishery surpass every other sort of maritime life , in the wonderfulness and fearfulness of the rumor which sometimes circulate there . for not only be whaleman as a body unexempt from that ignorance and superstitiousness hereditary to all sailor ; but of all sailor , they be by all odd the most directly bring into contact with whatever be appallingly astonishing in the sea ; face to face they not only eye its great marvel , but , hand to jaw , give battle to they . alone , in such remotest water , that though you sail a thousand mile , and pass a thousand shore , you would not come to any chisel hearth - stone , or aught hospitable beneath that part of the sun ; in such latitude and longitude , pursue too such a calling as he do , the whaleman be wrap by influence all tend to make his fancy pregnant with many a mighty birth .
no wonder , then , that ever gather volume from the mere transit over the wide watery space , the outblown rumor of the white whale do in the end incorporate with themselves all manner of morbid hint , and half - form foetal suggestion of supernatural agency , which eventually invest moby dick with new terror unborrowed from anything that visibly appear . so that in many case such a panic do he finally strike , that few who by those rumor , at least , have hear of the white whale , few of those hunter be willing to encounter the peril of his jaw .
but there be still other and more vital practical influence at work . not even at the present day have the original prestige of the sperm whale , as fearfully distinguish from all other specie of the leviathan , die out of the mind of the whaleman as a body . there be those this day among they , who , though intelligent and courageous enough in offer battle to the greenland or right whale , would perhaps -- either from professional inexperience , or incompetency , or timidity , decline a contest with the sperm whale ; at any rate , there be plenty of whaleman , especially among those whale nation not sail under the american flag , who have never hostilely encounter the sperm whale , but whose sole knowledge of the leviathan be restrict to the ignoble monster primitively pursue in the north ; seat on their hatch , these man will hearken with a childish fireside interest and awe , to the wild , strange tale of southern whaling . nor be the pre - eminent tremendousness of the great sperm whale anywhere more feelingly comprehend , than on board of those prow which stem he .
and as if the now test reality of his might have in former legendary time throw its shadow before it ; we find some book naturalist -- olassen and povelson -- declare the sperm whale not only to be a consternation to every other creature in the sea , but also to be so incredibly ferocious as continually to be athirst for human blood . nor even down to so late a time as cuvier 's , be these or almost similar impression efface . for in his natural history , the baron himself affirm that at sight of the sperm whale , all fish ( shark include ) be " strike with the most lively terror , " and " often in the precipitancy of their flight dash themselves against the rock with such violence as to cause instantaneous death . " and however the general experience in the fishery may amend such report as these ; yet in their full terribleness , even to the bloodthirsty item of povelson , the superstitious belief in they be , in some vicissitude of their vocation , revive in the mind of the hunter .
so that overawe by the rumor and portent concern he , not a few of the fisherman recall , in reference to moby dick , the early day of the sperm whale fishery , when it be oftentime hard to induce long practise right whaleman to embark in the peril of this new and daring warfare ; such man protest that although other leviathan might be hopefully pursue , yet to chase and point lance at such an apparition as the sperm whale be not for mortal man . that to attempt it , would be inevitably to be tear into a quick eternity . on this head , there be some remarkable document that may be consult .
nevertheless , some there be , who even in the face of these thing be ready to give chase to moby dick ; and a still great number who , chance only to hear of he distantly and vaguely , without the specific detail of any certain calamity , and without superstitious accompaniment , be sufficiently hardy not to flee from the battle if offer .
one of the wild suggestion refer to , as at last come to be link with the white whale in the mind of the superstitiously inclined , be the unearthly conceit that moby dick be ubiquitous ; that he have actually be encounter in opposite latitude at one and the same instant of time .
nor , credulous as such mind must have be , be this conceit altogether without some faint show of superstitious probability . for as the secret of the current in the sea have never yet be divulge , even to the most erudite research ; so the hidden way of the sperm whale when beneath the surface remain , in great part , unaccountable to his pursuer ; and from time to time have originate the most curious and contradictory speculation regard they , especially concern the mystic mode whereby , after sound to a great depth , he transport himself with such vast swiftness to the most widely distant point .
it be a thing well known to both american and english whale - ship , and as well a thing place upon authoritative record year ago by scoresby , that some whale have be capture far north in the pacific , in whose body have be find the barb of harpoon dart in the greenland sea . nor be it to be gainsay , that in some of these instance it have be declare that the interval of time between the two assault could not have exceed very many day . hence , by inference , it have be believe by some whaleman , that the nor ' west passage , so long a problem to man , be never a problem to the whale . so that here , in the real live experience of live man , the prodigy relate in old time of the inland strello mountain in portugal ( near whose top there be say to be a lake in which the wreck of ship float up to the surface ) ; and that still more wonderful story of the arethusa fountain near syracuse ( whose water be believe to have come from the holy land by an underground passage ) ; these fabulous narration be almost fully equal by the reality of the whaleman .
force into familiarity , then , with such prodigy as these ; and know that after repeat , intrepid assault , the white whale have escape alive ; it can not be much matter of surprise that some whaleman should go still far in their superstition ; declare moby dick not only ubiquitous , but immortal ( for immortality be but ubiquity in time ) ; that though grove of spear should be plant in his flank , he would still swim away unharmed ; or if indeed he should ever be make to spout thick blood , such a sight would be but a ghastly deception ; for again in unensanguined billow hundred of league away , his unsullied jet would once more be see .
but even strip of these supernatural surmising , there be enough in the earthly make and incontestable character of the monster to strike the imagination with unwonted power . for , it be not so much his uncommon bulk that so much distinguish he from other sperm whale , but , as be elsewhere throw out -- a peculiar snow - white wrinkle forehead , and a high , pyramidical white hump . these be his prominent feature ; the token whereby , even in the limitless , uncharted sea , he reveal his identity , at a long distance , to those who know he .
the rest of his body be so streaked , and spot , and marble with the same shrouded hue , that , in the end , he have gain his distinctive appellation of the white whale ; a name , indeed , literally justify by his vivid aspect , when see glide at high noon through a dark blue sea , leave a milky - way wake of creamy foam , all spangle with golden gleaming .
nor be it his unwonted magnitude , nor his remarkable hue , nor yet his deform low jaw , that so much invest the whale with natural terror , as that unexampled , intelligent malignity which , accord to specific account , he have over and over again evince in his assault . more than all , his treacherous retreat strike more of dismay than perhaps aught else . for , when swimming before his exulting pursuer , with every apparent symptom of alarm , he have several time be know to turn round suddenly , and , bear down upon they , either stave their boat to splinter , or drive they back in consternation to their ship .
already several fatality have attend his chase . but though similar disaster , however little bruited ashore , be by no mean unusual in the fishery ; yet , in most instance , such seem the white whale 's infernal aforethought of ferocity , that every dismembering or death that he cause , be not wholly regard as having be inflict by an unintelligent agent .
judge , then , to what pitch of inflame , distract fury the mind of his more desperate hunter be impel , when amid the chip of chewed boat , and the sink limb of torn comrade , they swam out of the white curd of the whale 's direful wrath into the serene , exasperate sunlight , that smile on , as if at a birth or a bridal .
his three boat stove around he , and oar and man both whirl in the eddy ; one captain , seize the line - knife from his broken prow , have dash at the whale , as an arkansas duellist at his foe , blindly seek with a six inch blade to reach the fathom - deep life of the whale . that captain be ahab . and then it be , that suddenly sweep his sickle - shaped low jaw beneath he , moby dick have reap away ahab 's leg , as a mower a blade of grass in the field . no turbane turk , no hire venetian or malay , could have smite he with more seeming malice . small reason be there to doubt , then , that ever since that almost fatal encounter , ahab have cherish a wild vindictiveness against the whale , all the more fall for that in his frantic morbidness he at last come to identify with he , not only all his bodily woe , but all his intellectual and spiritual exasperation . the white whale swam before he as the monomaniac incarnation of all those malicious agency which some deep man feel eat in they , till they be leave live on with half a heart and half a lung . that intangible malignity which have be from the beginning ; to whose dominion even the modern christians ascribe one - half of the world ; which the ancient ophites of the east reverence in their statue devil;--ahab do not fall down and worship it like they ; but deliriously transfer its idea to the abhor white whale , he pit himself , all mutilate , against it . all that most madden and torment ; all that stir up the lee of thing ; all truth with malice in it ; all that crack the sinew and cake the brain ; all the subtle demonism of life and thought ; all evil , to crazy ahab , be visibly personify , and make practically assailable in moby dick . he pile upon the whale 's white hump the sum of all the general rage and hate feel by his whole race from adam down ; and then , as if his chest have be a mortar , he burst his hot heart 's shell upon it .
it be not probable that this monomania in he take its instant rise at the precise time of his bodily dismemberment . then , in dart at the monster , knife in hand , he have but give loose to a sudden , passionate , corporal animosity ; and when he receive the stroke that tear he , he probably but feel the agonizing bodily laceration , but nothing more . yet , when by this collision force to turn towards home , and for long month of day and week , ahab and anguish lay stretch together in one hammock , round in mid winter that dreary , howl patagonian cape ; then it be , that his torn body and gash soul bleed into one another ; and so interfusing , make he mad . that it be only then , on the homeward voyage , after the encounter , that the final monomania seize he , seem all but certain from the fact that , at interval during the passage , he be a rave lunatic ; and , though unlimbe of a leg , yet such vital strength yet lurk in his egyptian chest , and be moreover intensify by his delirium , that his mate be force to lace he fast , even there , as he sail , rave in his hammock . in a strait - jacket , he swing to the mad rocking of the gale . and , when run into more sufferable latitude , the ship , with mild stun'sails spread , float across the tranquil tropic , and , to all appearance , the old man 's delirium seem leave behind he with the cape horn swell , and he come forth from his dark den into the bless light and air ; even then , when he bear that firm , collect front , however pale , and issue his calm order once again ; and his mate thank god the direful madness be now go ; even then , ahab , in his hide self , rave on . human madness be oftentime a cunning and most feline thing . when you think it flee , it may have but become transfigure into some still subtler form . ahab 's full lunacy subside not , but deepeningly contract ; like the unabated hudson , when that noble northman flow narrowly , but unfathomably through the highland gorge . but , as in his narrow - flow monomania , not one jot of ahab 's broad madness have be leave behind ; so in that broad madness , not one jot of his great natural intellect have perish . that before live agent , now become the living instrument . if such a furious trope may stand , his special lunacy storm his general sanity , and carry it , and turn all its concentre cannon upon its own mad mark ; so that far from having lose his strength , ahab , to that one end , do now possess a thousand fold more potency than ever he have sanely bring to bear upon any one reasonable object .
this be much ; yet ahab 's large , dark , deep part remain unhinted . but vain to popularize profundity , and all truth be profound . wind far down from within the very heart of this spiked hotel de cluny where we here stand -- however grand and wonderful , now quit it;--and take your way , ye nobler , sadder soul , to those vast roman hall of therme ; where far beneath the fantastic tower of man 's upper earth , his root of grandeur , his whole awful essence sit in bearded state ; an antique bury beneath antiquity , and throne on torsoe ! so with a broken throne , the great god mock that captive king ; so like a caryatid , he patient sit , uphold on his frozen brow the pile entablature of age . wind ye down there , ye prouder , sad soul ! question that proud , sad king ! a family likeness ! aye , he do beget ye , ye young exile royalty ; and from your grim sire only will the old state - secret come .
now , in his heart , ahab have some glimpse of this , namely : all my mean be sane , my motive and my object mad . yet without power to kill , or change , or shun the fact ; he likewise know that to mankind he do long dissemble ; in some sort , do still . but that thing of his dissembling be only subject to his perceptibility , not to his will determinate . nevertheless , so well do he succeed in that dissembling , that when with ivory leg he step ashore at last , no nantucketer think he otherwise than but naturally grieve , and that to the quick , with the terrible casualty which have overtake he .
the report of his undeniable delirium at sea be likewise popularly ascribe to a kindre cause . and so too , all the add moodiness which always afterwards , to the very day of sailing in the pequod on the present voyage , sit brood on his brow . nor be it so very unlikely , that far from distrust his fitness for another whale voyage , on account of such dark symptom , the calculate people of that prudent isle be incline to harbor the conceit , that for those very reason he be all the well qualified and set on edge , for a pursuit so full of rage and wildness as the bloody hunt of whale . gnaw within and scorch without , with the infixed , unrelenting fang of some incurable idea ; such an one , could he be find , would seem the very man to dart his iron and lift his lance against the most appalling of all brute . or , if for any reason think to be corporeally incapacitate for that , yet such an one would seem superlatively competent to cheer and howl on his underling to the attack . but be all this as it may , certain it be , that with the mad secret of his unabated rage bolt up and key in he , ahab have purposely sail upon the present voyage with the one only and all - engrossing object of hunt the white whale . have any one of his old acquaintance on shore but half dream of what be lurk in he then , how soon would their aghast and righteous soul have wrench the ship from such a fiendish man ! they be bent on profitable cruise , the profit to be count down in dollar from the mint . he be intent on an audacious , immitigable , and supernatural revenge .
here , then , be this grey - head , ungodly old man , chase with curse a job 's whale round the world , at the head of a crew , too , chiefly make up of mongrel renegade , and castaway , and cannibal -- morally enfeeble also , by the incompetence of mere unaided virtue or right - mindedness in starbuck , the invunerable jollity of indifference and recklessness in stubb , and the pervade mediocrity in flask . such a crew , so officered , seem specially pick and pack by some infernal fatality to help he to his monomaniac revenge . how it be that they so aboundingly respond to the old man 's ire -- by what evil magic their soul be possess , that at time his hate seem almost theirs ; the white whale as much their insufferable foe as his ; how all this come to be -- what the white whale be to they , or how to their unconscious understanding , also , in some dim , unsuspected way , he might have seem the glide great demon of the sea of life,--all this to explain , would be to dive deep than ishmael can go . the subterranean miner that work in we all , how can one tell whither lead his shaft by the ever shift , muffle sound of his pick ? who do not feel the irresistible arm drag ? what skiff in tow of a seventy - four can stand still ? for one , i give myself up to the abandonment of the time and the place ; but while yet all a - rush to encounter the whale , could see naught in that brute but the deadly ill .
chapter 42
the whiteness of the whale .
what the white whale be to ahab , have be hint ; what , at time , he be to i , as yet remain unsaid .
aside from those more obvious consideration touch moby dick , which could not but occasionally awaken in any man 's soul some alarm , there be another thought , or rather vague , nameless horror concern he , which at time by its intensity completely overpower all the rest ; and yet so mystical and well nigh ineffable be it , that i almost despair of put it in a comprehensible form . it be the whiteness of the whale that above all thing appal i . but how can i hope to explain myself here ; and yet , in some dim , random way , explain myself i must , else all these chapter might be naught .
though in many natural object , whiteness refiningly enhance beauty , as if impart some special virtue of its own , as in marble , japonicas , and pearl ; and though various nation have in some way recognise a certain royal preeminence in this hue ; even the barbaric , grand old king of pegu place the title " lord of the white elephants " above all their other magniloquent ascription of dominion ; and the modern king of siam unfurling the same snow - white quadrupe in the royal standard ; and the hanoverian flag bear the one figure of a snow - white charger ; and the great austrian empire , caesarian , heir to overlorde rome , have for the imperial colour the same imperial hue ; and though this pre - eminence in it apply to the human race itself , give the white man ideal mastership over every dusky tribe ; and though , besides , all this , whiteness have be even make significant of gladness , for among the romans a white stone mark a joyful day ; and though in other mortal sympathy and symbolizing , this same hue be make the emblem of many touching , noble thing -- the innocence of bride , the benignity of age ; though among the red men of america the giving of the white belt of wampum be the deep pledge of honour ; though in many clime , whiteness typify the majesty of justice in the ermine of the judge , and contribute to the daily state of king and queen draw by milk - white steed ; though even in the high mystery of the most august religion it have be make the symbol of the divine spotlessness and power ; by the persian fire worshipper , the white fork flame be hold the holy on the altar ; and in the greek mythology , great jove himself be make incarnate in a snow - white bull ; and though to the noble iroquois , the midwinter sacrifice of the sacred white dog be by far the holy festival of their theology , that spotless , faithful creature be hold the pure envoy they could send to the great spirit with the annual tiding of their own fidelity ; and though directly from the latin word for white , all christian priest derive the name of one part of their sacred vesture , the alb or tunic , wear beneath the cassock ; and though among the holy pomp of the romish faith , white be specially employ in the celebration of the passion of our lord ; though in the vision of st. john , white robe be give to the redeemed , and the four - and - twenty elder stand clothe in white before the great - white throne , and the holy one that sitteth there white like wool ; yet for all these accumulate association , with whatever be sweet , and honourable , and sublime , there yet lurk an elusive something in the innermost idea of this hue , which strike more of panic to the soul than that redness which affright in blood .
this elusive quality it be , which cause the thought of whiteness , when divorce from more kindly association , and couple with any object terrible in itself , to heighten that terror to the furth bound . witness the white bear of the pole , and the white shark of the tropic ; what but their smooth , flaky whiteness make they the transcendent horror they be ? that ghastly whiteness it be which impart such an abhorrent mildness , even more loathsome than terrific , to the dumb gloating of their aspect . so that not the fierce - fanged tiger in his heraldic coat can so stagger courage as the white - shroud bear or shark . *
* with reference to the polar bear , it may possibly be urge by he who would fain go still deep into this matter , that it be not the whiteness , separately regard , which heighten the intolerable hideousness of that brute ; for , analyse , that heighten hideousness , it might be say , only rise from the circumstance , that the irresponsible ferociousness of the creature stands invest in the fleece of celestial innocence and love ; and hence , by bring together two such opposite emotion in our mind , the polar bear frighten we with so unnatural a contrast . but even assume all this to be true ; yet , be it not for the whiteness , you would not have that intensify terror .
as for the white shark , the white glide ghostliness of repose in that creature , when beheld in his ordinary mood , strangely tally with the same quality in the polar quadrupe . this peculiarity be most vividly hit by the french in the name they bestow upon that fish . the romish mass for the dead begin with " requiem eternam " ( eternal rest ) , whence requiem denominate the mass itself , and any other funeral music . now , in allusion to the white , silent stillness of death in this shark , and the mild deadliness of his habit , the french call he requin .
bethink thee of the albatross , whence come those cloud of spiritual wonderment and pale dread , in which that white phantom sail in all imagination ? not coleridge first throw that spell ; but god 's great , unflattering laureate , nature . *
* i remember the first albatross i ever see . it be during a prolonged gale , in water hard upon the antarctic sea . from my forenoon watch below , i ascend to the overcloud deck ; and there , dash upon the main hatch , i see a regal , feathery thing of unspotted whiteness , and with a hooked , roman bill sublime . at interval , it arch forth its vast archangel wing , as if to embrace some holy ark . wondrous fluttering and throbbing shake it . though bodily unharmed , it utter cry , as some king 's ghost in supernatural distress . through its inexpressible , strange eye , methought i peep to secret which take hold of god . as abraham before the angel , i bow myself ; the white thing be so white , its wing so wide , and in those for ever exile water , i have lose the miserable warp memory of tradition and of town . long i gaze at that prodigy of plumage . i can not tell , can only hint , the thing that dart through i then . but at last i awake ; and turning , ask a sailor what bird be this . a goney , he reply . goney ! never have hear that name before ; be it conceivable that this glorious thing be utterly unknown to man ashore ! never ! but some time after , i learn that goney be some seaman 's name for albatross . so that by no possibility could coleridge 's wild rhyme have have aught to do with those mystical impression which be mine , when i see that bird upon our deck . for neither have i then read the rhyme , nor know the bird to be an albatross . yet , in say this , i do but indirectly burnish a little brighter the noble merit of the poem and the poet .
i assert , then , that in the wondrous bodily whiteness of the bird chiefly lurk the secret of the spell ; a truth the more evinced in this , that by a solecism of term there be bird call grey albatross ; and these i have frequently see , but never with such emotion as when i behold the antarctic fowl .
but how have the mystic thing be catch ? whisper it not , and i will tell ; with a treacherous hook and line , as the fowl float on the sea . at last the captain make a postman of it ; tie a lettered , leathern tally round its neck , with the ship 's time and place ; and then let it escape . but i doubt not , that leathern tally , mean for man , be take off in heaven , when the white fowl fly to join the wing - folding , the invoking , and adore cherubim !
most famous in our western annal and indian tradition be that of the white steed of the prairies ; a magnificent milk - white charger , large - eye , small - headed , bluff - cheste , and with the dignity of a thousand monarch in his lofty , overscorne carriage . he be the elect xerxes of vast herd of wild horse , whose pasture in those day be only fence by the rocky mountains and the alleghanies . at their flaming head he westward troop it like that choose star which every evening lead on the host of light . the flash cascade of his mane , the curve comet of his tail , invest he with housing more resplendent than gold and silver - beater could have furnish he . a most imperial and archangelical apparition of that unfallen , western world , which to the eye of the old trapper and hunter revive the glory of those primeval time when adam walk majestic as a god , bluff - browed and fearless as this mighty steed . whether march amid his aide and marshal in the van of countless cohort that endlessly stream it over the plain , like an ohio ; or whether with his circumambient subject browse all around at the horizon , the white steed gallopingly review they with warm nostril redden through his cool milkiness ; in whatever aspect he present himself , always to the brave indians he be the object of tremble reverence and awe . nor can it be question from what stand on legendary record of this noble horse , that it be his spiritual whiteness chiefly , which so clothe he with divineness ; and that this divineness have that in it which , though command worship , at the same time enforce a certain nameless terror .
but there be other instance where this whiteness lose all that accessory and strange glory which invest it in the white steed and albatross .
what be it that in the albino man so peculiarly repel and often shock the eye , as that sometimes he be loathe by his own kith and kin ! it be that whiteness which invest he , a thing express by the name he bear . the albino be as well make as other man -- have no substantive deformity -- and yet this mere aspect of all - pervade whiteness make he more strangely hideous than the ugly abortion . why should this be so ?
nor , in quite other aspect , do nature in her least palpable but not the less malicious agency , fail to enlist among her force this crown attribute of the terrible . from its snowy aspect , the gauntlete ghost of the southern seas have be denominate the white squall . nor , in some historic instance , have the art of human malice omit so potent an auxiliary . how wildly it heighten the effect of that passage in froissart , when , mask in the snowy symbol of their faction , the desperate white hoods of ghent murder their bailiff in the market - place !
nor , in some thing , do the common , hereditary experience of all mankind fail to bear witness to the supernaturalism of this hue . it can not well be doubt , that the one visible quality in the aspect of the dead which most appal the gazer , be the marble pallor linger there ; as if indeed that pallor be as much like the badge of consternation in the other world , as of mortal trepidation here . and from that pallor of the dead , we borrow the expressive hue of the shroud in which we wrap they . nor even in our superstition do we fail to throw the same snowy mantle round our phantom ; all ghost rise in a milk - white fog -- yea , while these terror seize we , let we add , that even the king of terror , when personify by the evangelist , rid on his pallid horse .
therefore , in his other mood , symbolize whatever grand or gracious thing he will by whiteness , no man can deny that in its profound idealize significance it call up a peculiar apparition to the soul .
but though without dissent this point be fix , how be mortal man to account for it ? to analyse it , would seem impossible . can we , then , by the citation of some of those instance wherein this thing of whiteness -- though for the time either wholly or in great part strip of all direct association calculate to impart to it aught fearful , but nevertheless , be find to exert over we the same sorcery , however modified;--can we thus hope to light upon some chance clue to conduct we to the hidden cause we seek ?
let we try . but in a matter like this , subtlety appeal to subtlety , and without imagination no man can follow another into these hall . and though , doubtless , some at least of the imaginative impression about to be present may have be share by most man , yet few perhaps be entirely conscious of they at the time , and therefore may not be able to recall they now .
why to the man of untutored ideality , who happen to be but loosely acquaint with the peculiar character of the day , do the bare mention of whitsuntide marshal in the fancy such long , dreary , speechless procession of slow - pacing pilgrim , down - cast and hood with new - fallen snow ? or , to the unread , unsophisticated protestant of the middle american states , why do the passing mention of a white friar or a white nun , evoke such an eyeless statue in the soul ?
or what be there apart from the tradition of dungeone warrior and king ( which will not wholly account for it ) that make the white tower of london tell so much more strongly on the imagination of an untravelled american , than those other storied structure , its neighbor -- the byward tower , or even the bloody ? and those sublimer tower , the white mountains of new hampshire , whence , in peculiar mood , come that gigantic ghostliness over the soul at the bare mention of that name , while the thought of virginia 's blue ridge be full of a soft , dewy , distant dreaminess ? or why , irrespective of all latitude and longitude , do the name of the white sea exert such a spectralness over the fancy , while that of the yellow sea lull we with mortal thought of long lacquer mild afternoon on the wave , follow by the gaudiest and yet sleepiest of sunset ? or , to choose a wholly unsubstantial instance , purely address to the fancy , why , in read the old fairy tale of central europe , do " the tall pale man " of the hartz forest , whose changeless pallor unrustlingly glide through the green of the grove -- why be this phantom more terrible than all the whooping imp of the blocksburg ?
nor be it , altogether , the remembrance of her cathedral - topple earthquake ; nor the stampedoe of her frantic sea ; nor the tearlessness of arid sky that never rain ; nor the sight of her wide field of lean spire , wrench cope - stone , and cross all adroop ( like canted yard of anchor fleet ) ; and her suburban avenue of house - wall lie over upon each other , as a tossed pack of cards;--it be not these thing alone which make tearless lima , the strangest , sad city thou can'st see . for lima have take the white veil ; and there be a high horror in this whiteness of her woe . old as pizarro , this whiteness keep she ruin for ever new ; admit not the cheerful greenness of complete decay ; spread over her break rampart the rigid pallor of an apoplexy that fix its own distortion .
i know that , to the common apprehension , this phenomenon of whiteness be not confess to be the prime agent in exaggerate the terror of object otherwise terrible ; nor to the unimaginative mind be there aught of terror in those appearance whose awfulness to another mind almost solely consist in this one phenomenon , especially when exhibit under any form at all approach to muteness or universality . what i mean by these two statement may perhaps be respectively elucidate by the follow example .
first : the mariner , when draw nigh the coast of foreign land , if by night he hear the roar of breaker , start to vigilance , and feel just enough of trepidation to sharpen all his faculty ; but under precisely similar circumstance , let he be call from his hammock to view his ship sail through a midnight sea of milky whiteness -- as if from encircle headland shoal of combed white bear be swim round he , then he feel a silent , superstitious dread ; the shrouded phantom of the whitened water be horrible to he as a real ghost ; in vain the lead assure he he be still off sounding ; heart and helm they both go down ; he never rest till blue water be under he again . yet where be the mariner who will tell thee , " sir , it be not so much the fear of strike hidden rock , as the fear of that hideous whiteness that so stir i ? "
second : to the native indian of peru , the continual sight of the snowhowdahed andes convey naught of dread , except , perhaps , in the mere fancying of the eternal frosted desolateness reign at such vast altitude , and the natural conceit of what a fearfulness it would be to lose oneself in such inhuman solitude . much the same be it with the backwoodsman of the west , who with comparative indifference view an unbounded prairie sheet with drive snow , no shadow of tree or twig to break the fix trance of whiteness . not so the sailor , behold the scenery of the antarctic sea ; where at time , by some infernal trick of legerdemain in the power of frost and air , he , shivering and half shipwreck , instead of rainbow speak hope and solace to his misery , view what seem a boundless churchyard grinning upon he with its lean ice monument and splintered cross .
but thou sayest , methink that white - lead chapter about whiteness be but a white flag hang out from a craven soul ; thou surrender to a hypo , ishmael .
tell i , why this strong young colt , foal in some peaceful valley of vermont , far remove from all beast of prey -- why be it that upon the sunny day , if you but shake a fresh buffalo robe behind he , so that he can not even see it , but only smell its wild animal muskiness -- why will he start , snort , and with burst eye paw the ground in phrensie of affright ? there be no remembrance in he of any goring of wild creature in his green northern home , so that the strange muskiness he smell can not recall to he anything associate with the experience of former peril ; for what know he , this new england colt , of the black bison of distant oregon ?
no ; but here thou beholdest even in a dumb brute , the instinct of the knowledge of the demonism in the world . though thousand of mile from oregon , still when he smell that savage musk , the rending , goring bison herd be as present as to the deserted wild foal of the prairie , which this instant they may be trample into dust .
thus , then , the muffle rolling of a milky sea ; the bleak rustling of the festoon frost of mountain ; the desolate shifting of the windrowe snow of prairie ; all these , to ishmael , be as the shaking of that buffalo robe to the frightened colt !
though neither know where lie the nameless thing of which the mystic sign give forth such hint ; yet with i , as with the colt , somewhere those thing must exist . though in many of its aspect this visible world seems form in love , the invisible sphere be form in fright .
but not yet have we solve the incantation of this whiteness , and learn why it appeal with such power to the soul ; and more strange and far more portentous -- why , as we have see , it be at once the most meaning symbol of spiritual thing , nay , the very veil of the christian 's deity ; and yet should be as it be , the intensify agent in thing the most appalling to mankind .
be it that by its indefiniteness it shadow forth the heartless voids and immensity of the universe , and thus stab we from behind with the thought of annihilation , when behold the white depth of the milky way ? or be it , that as in essence whiteness be not so much a colour as the visible absence of colour ; and at the same time the concrete of all colour ; be it for these reason that there be such a dumb blankness , full of meaning , in a wide landscape of snow -- a colourless , all - colour of atheism from which we shrink ? and when we consider that other theory of the natural philosopher , that all other earthly hue -- every stately or lovely emblazoning -- the sweet tinge of sunset sky and wood ; yea , and the gilded velvet of butterfly , and the butterfly cheek of young girl ; all these be but subtile deceit , not actually inherent in substance , but only lay on from without ; so that all deify nature absolutely paint like the harlot , whose allurement cover nothing but the charnel - house within ; and when we proceed far , and consider that the mystical cosmetic which produce every one of her hue , the great principle of light , for ever remain white or colourless in itself , and if operate without medium upon matter , would touch all object , even tulip and rose , with its own blank tinge -- ponder all this , the palsied universe lie before we a leper ; and like wilful traveller in lapland , who refuse to wear coloured and colour glass upon their eye , so the wretched infidel gaze himself blind at the monumental white shroud that wrap all the prospect around he . and of all these thing the albino whale be the symbol . wonder ye then at the fiery hunt ?
chapter 43
hark !
" hist ! do you hear that noise , cabaco ?
it be the middle - watch ; a fair moonlight ; the seaman be stand in a cordon , extend from one of the fresh - water butt in the waist , to the scuttle - butt near the taffrail . in this manner , they pass the bucket to fill the scuttle - butt . standing , for the most part , on the hallowed precinct of the quarter - deck , they be careful not to speak or rustle their foot . from hand to hand , the bucket go in the deep silence , only break by the occasional flap of a sail , and the steady hum of the unceasingly advance keel .
it be in the midst of this repose , that archy , one of the cordon , whose post be near the after - hatch , whisper to his neighbor , a cholo , the word above .
" hist ! do you hear that noise , cabaco ? "
" take the bucket , will ye , archy ? what noise d'ye mean ? "
" there it be again -- under the hatch -- don't you hear it -- a cough -- it sound like a cough . "
" cough be damn ! pass along that return bucket . "
" there again -- there it is!--it sound like two or three sleeper turn over , now ! "
" caramba ! have do , shipmate , will ye ? it be the three soak biscuit ye eat for supper turn over inside of ye -- nothing else . look to the bucket ! "
" say what ye will , shipmate ; i have sharp ear . "
" aye , you be the chap , be not ye , that hear the hum of the old quakeress 's knitting - needle fifty mile at sea from nantucket ; you be the chap . "
" grin away ; we will see what turn up . hark ye , cabaco , there be somebody down in the after - hold that have not yet be see on deck ; and i suspect our old mogul know something of it too . i hear stubb tell flask , one morning watch , that there be something of that sort in the wind . "
" tish ! the bucket ! "
chapter 44
the chart .
have you follow captain ahab down into his cabin after the squall that take place on the night succeed that wild ratification of his purpose with his crew , you would have see he go to a locker in the transom , and bring out a large wrinkle roll of yellowish sea chart , spread they before he on his screw - down table . then seat himself before it , you would have see he intently study the various line and shading which there meet his eye ; and with slow but steady pencil trace additional course over space that before be blank . at interval , he would refer to pile of old log - book beside he , wherein be set down the season and place in which , on various former voyage of various ship , sperm whale have be capture or see .
while thus employ , the heavy pewter lamp suspend in chain over his head , continually rock with the motion of the ship , and for ever throw shift gleam and shadow of line upon his wrinkle brow , till it almost seem that while he himself be mark out line and course on the wrinkle chart , some invisible pencil be also trace line and course upon the deeply marked chart of his forehead .
but it be not this night in particular that , in the solitude of his cabin , ahab thus ponder over his chart . almost every night they be bring out ; almost every night some pencil mark be effaced , and other be substitute . for with the chart of all four ocean before he , ahab be thread a maze of current and eddy , with a view to the more certain accomplishment of that monomaniac thought of his soul .
now , to any one not fully acquaint with the way of the leviathans , it might seem an absurdly hopeless task thus to seek out one solitary creature in the unhooped ocean of this planet . but not so do it seem to ahab , who know the set of all tide and current ; and thereby calculate the drifting of the sperm whale 's food ; and , also , call to mind the regular , ascertained season for hunt he in particular latitude ; could arrive at reasonable surmise , almost approach to certainty , concern the timely day to be upon this or that ground in search of his prey .
so assured , indeed , be the fact concern the periodicalness of the sperm whale 's resort to give water , that many hunter believe that , could he be closely observe and study throughout the world ; be the log for one voyage of the entire whale fleet carefully collate , then the migration of the sperm whale would be find to correspond in invariability to those of the herring - shoal or the flight of swallow . on this hint , attempt have be make to construct elaborate migratory chart of the sperm whale . *
* since the above be write , the statement be happily bear out by an official circular , issue by lieutenant maury , of the national observatory , washington , april 16th , 1851 . by that circular , it appear that precisely such a chart be in course of completion ; and portion of it be present in the circular . " this chart divide the ocean into district of five degree of latitude by five degree of longitude ; perpendicularly through each of which district be twelve column for the twelve month ; and horizontally through each of which district be three line ; one to show the number of day that have be spend in each month in every district , and the two other to show the number of day in which whale , sperm or right , have be see . "
besides , when make a passage from one feeding - ground to another , the sperm whale , guide by some infallible instinct -- say , rather , secret intelligence from the deity -- mostly swim in vein , as they be call ; continue their way along a give ocean - line with such undeviating exactitude , that no ship ever sail her course , by any chart , with one tithe of such marvellous precision . though , in these case , the direction take by any one whale be straight as a surveyor 's parallel , and though the line of advance be strictly confine to its own unavoidable , straight wake , yet the arbitrary vein in which at these time he be say to swim , generally embrace some few mile in width ( more or less , as the vein be presume to expand or contract ) ; but never exceed the visual sweep from the whale - ship 's mast - head , when circumspectly glide along this magic zone . the sum be , that at particular season within that breadth and along that path , migrate whale may with great confidence be look for .
and hence not only at substantiate time , upon well know separate feeding - ground , could ahab hope to encounter his prey ; but in cross the wide expanse of water between those ground he could , by his art , so place and time himself on his way , as even then not to be wholly without prospect of a meeting .
there be a circumstance which at first sight seem to entangle his delirious but still methodical scheme . but not so in the reality , perhaps . though the gregarious sperm whale have their regular season for particular ground , yet in general you can not conclude that the herd which haunt such and such a latitude or longitude this year , say , will turn out to be identically the same with those that be find there the precede season ; though there be peculiar and unquestionable instance where the contrary of this have prove true . in general , the same remark , only within a less wide limit , apply to the solitary and hermit among the matured , aged sperm whale . so that though moby dick have in a former year be see , for example , on what be call the seychelle ground in the indian ocean , or volcano bay on the japanese coast ; yet it do not follow , that be the pequod to visit either of those spot at any subsequent corresponding season , she would infallibly encounter he there . so , too , with some other feeding ground , where he have at time reveal himself . but all these seem only his casual stopping - place and ocean - inn , so to speak , not his place of prolonged abode . and where ahab 's chance of accomplish his object have hitherto be speak of , allusion have only be make to whatever way - side , antecedent , extra prospect be his , ere a particular set time or place be attain , when all possibility would become probability , and , as ahab fondly think , every possibility the next thing to a certainty . that particular set time and place be conjoin in the one technical phrase -- the season - on - the - line . for there and then , for several consecutive year , moby dick have be periodically descry , linger in those water for awhile , as the sun , in its annual round , loiter for a predict interval in any one sign of the zodiac . there it be , too , that most of the deadly encounter with the white whale have take place ; there the wave be story with his deed ; there also be that tragic spot where the monomaniac old man have find the awful motive to his vengeance . but in the cautious comprehensiveness and unloitere vigilance with which ahab throw his brood soul into this unfaltere hunt , he would not permit himself to rest all his hope upon the one crown fact above mention , however flattering it might be to those hope ; nor in the sleeplessness of his vow could he so tranquillize his unquiet heart as to postpone all intervene quest .
now , the pequod have sail from nantucket at the very beginning of the season - on - the - line . no possible endeavor then could enable her commander to make the great passage southward , double cape horn , and then run down sixty degree of latitude arrive in the equatorial pacific in time to cruise there . therefore , he must wait for the next ensue season . yet the premature hour of the pequod 's sailing have , perhaps , be correctly select by ahab , with a view to this very complexion of thing . because , an interval of three hundred and sixty - five day and night be before he ; an interval which , instead of impatiently endure ashore , he would spend in a miscellaneous hunt ; if by chance the white whale , spend his vacation in sea far remote from his periodical feeding - ground , should turn up his wrinkle brow off the persian gulf , or in the bengal bay , or china seas , or in any other water haunt by his race . so that monsoons , pampas , nor'-wester , harmattans , trades ; any wind but the levanter and simoon , might blow moby dick into the devious zig - zag world - circle of the pequod 's circumnavigating wake .
but grant all this ; yet , regard discreetly and coolly , seem it not but a mad idea , this ; that in the broad boundless ocean , one solitary whale , even if encounter , should be think capable of individual recognition from his hunter , even as a white - bearded mufti in the throng thoroughfare of constantinople ? yes . for the peculiar snow - white brow of moby dick , and his snow - white hump , could not but be unmistakable . and have i not tally the whale , ahab would mutter to himself , as after pore over his chart till long after midnight he would throw himself back in revery -- tally he , and shall he escape ? his broad fin be bored , and scallop out like a lost sheep 's ear ! and here , his mad mind would run on in a breathless race ; till a weariness and faintness of ponder come over he ; and in the open air of the deck he would seek to recover his strength . ah , god ! what trance of torment do that man endure who be consume with one unachieved revengeful desire . he sleep with clench hand ; and wake with his own bloody nail in his palm .
often , when force from his hammock by exhausting and intolerably vivid dream of the night , which , resume his own intense thought through the day , carry they on amid a clashing of phrensie , and whirl they round and round and round in his blaze brain , till the very throbbing of his life - spot become insufferable anguish ; and when , as be sometimes the case , these spiritual throe in he heave his be up from its base , and a chasm seem open in he , from which fork flame and lightning shoot up , and accurse fiend beckon he to leap down among they ; when this hell in himself yawn beneath he , a wild cry would be hear through the ship ; and with glare eye ahab would burst from his state room , as though escape from a bed that be on fire . yet these , perhaps , instead of be the unsuppressable symptom of some latent weakness , or fright at his own resolve , be but the plain token of its intensity . for , at such time , crazy ahab , the scheming , unappeasedly steadfast hunter of the white whale ; this ahab that have go to his hammock , be not the agent that so cause he to burst from it in horror again . the latter be the eternal , live principle or soul in he ; and in sleep , be for the time dissociate from the characterize mind , which at other time employ it for its outer vehicle or agent , it spontaneously seek escape from the scorch contiguity of the frantic thing , of which , for the time , it be no long an integral . but as the mind do not exist unless league with the soul , therefore it must have be that , in ahab 's case , yield up all his thought and fancy to his one supreme purpose ; that purpose , by its own sheer inveteracy of will , force itself against god and devil into a kind of self - assume , independent being of its own . nay , could grimly live and burn , while the common vitality to which it be conjoin , flee horror - stricken from the unbidden and unfathered birth . therefore , the torment spirit that glare out of bodily eye , when what seem ahab rush from his room , be for the time but a vacate thing , a formless somnambulistic being , a ray of live light , to be sure , but without an object to colour , and therefore a blankness in itself . god help thee , old man , thy thought have create a creature in thee ; and he whose intense thinking thus make he a prometheus ; a vulture feed upon that heart for ever ; that vulture the very creature he create .
chapter 45
the affidavit .
so far as what there may be of a narrative in this book ; and , indeed , as indirectly touch one or two very interesting and curious particular in the habit of sperm whale , the forego chapter , in its early part , be as important a one as will be find in this volume ; but the lead matter of it require to be still further and more familiarly enlarge upon , in order to be adequately understand , and moreover to take away any incredulity which a profound ignorance of the entire subject may induce in some mind , as to the natural verity of the main point of this affair .
i care not to perform this part of my task methodically ; but shall be content to produce the desire impression by separate citation of item , practically or reliably know to i as a whaleman ; and from these citation , i take it -- the conclusion aim at will naturally follow of itself .
first : i have personally know three instance where a whale , after receive a harpoon , have effect a complete escape ; and , after an interval ( in one instance of three year ) , have be again strike by the same hand , and slay ; when the two iron , both mark by the same private cypher , have be take from the body . in the instance where three year intervene between the flinging of the two harpoon ; and i think it may have be something more than that ; the man who dart they happen , in the interval , to go in a trading ship on a voyage to africa , go ashore there , join a discovery party , and penetrate far into the interior , where he travel for a period of nearly two year , often endanger by serpent , savage , tiger , poisonous miasma , with all the other common peril incident to wander in the heart of unknown region . meanwhile , the whale he have strike must also have be on its travel ; no doubt it have thrice circumnavigate the globe , brush with its flank all the coast of africa ; but to no purpose . this man and this whale again come together , and the one vanquish the other . i say i , myself , have know three instance similar to this ; that be in two of they i see the whale strike ; and , upon the second attack , see the two iron with the respective mark cut in they , afterwards take from the dead fish . in the three - year instance , it so fall out that i be in the boat both time , first and last , and the last time distinctly recognise a peculiar sort of huge mole under the whale 's eye , which i have observe there three year previous . i say three year , but i be pretty sure it be more than that . here be three instance , then , which i personally know the truth of ; but i have hear of many other instance from person whose veracity in the matter there be no good ground to impeach .
secondly : it be well know in the sperm whale fishery , however ignorant the world ashore may be of it , that there have be several memorable historical instance where a particular whale in the ocean have be at distant time and place popularly cognisable . why such a whale become thus marked be not altogether and originally owe to his bodily peculiarity as distinguish from other whale ; for however peculiar in that respect any chance whale may be , they soon put an end to his peculiarity by kill he , and boil he down into a peculiarly valuable oil . no : the reason be this : that from the fatal experience of the fishery there hang a terrible prestige of perilousness about such a whale as there do about rinaldo rinaldini , insomuch that most fisherman be content to recognise he by merely touch their tarpaulin when he would be discover lounge by they on the sea , without seek to cultivate a more intimate acquaintance . like some poor devil ashore that happen to know an irascible great man , they make distant unobtrusive salutation to he in the street , lest if they pursue the acquaintance far , they might receive a summary thump for their presumption .
but not only do each of these famous whale enjoy great individual celebrity -- nay , you may call it an ocean - wide renown ; not only be he famous in life and now be immortal in forecastle story after death , but he be admit into all the right , privilege , and distinction of a name ; have as much a name indeed as cambyses or caesar . be it not so , o timor tom ! thou famed leviathan , scar like an iceberg , who so long did'st lurk in the oriental strait of that name , whose spout be oft see from the palmy beach of ombay ? be it not so , o new zealand jack ! thou terror of all cruiser that cross their wake in the vicinity of the tattoo land ? be it not so , o morquan ! king of japan , whose lofty jet they say at time assume the semblance of a snow - white cross against the sky ? be it not so , o don miguel ! thou chilian whale , mark like an old tortoise with mystic hieroglyphic upon the back ! in plain prose , here be four whale as well know to the student of cetacean history as marius or sylla to the classic scholar .
but this be not all . new zealand tom and don miguel , after at various time create great havoc among the boat of different vessel , be finally go in quest of , systematically hunt out , chase and kill by valiant whaling captain , who heave up their anchor with that express object as much in view , as in set out through the narragansett woods , captain butler of old have it in his mind to capture that notorious murderous savage annawon , the headmost warrior of the indian king philip .
i do not know where i can find a well place than just here , to make mention of one or two other thing , which to i seem important , as in print form establish in all respect the reasonableness of the whole story of the white whale , more especially the catastrophe . for this be one of those disheartening instance where truth require full as much bolster as error . so ignorant be most landsman of some of the plainest and most palpable wonder of the world , that without some hint touch the plain fact , historical and otherwise , of the fishery , they might scout at moby dick as a monstrous fable , or still bad and more detestable , a hideous and intolerable allegory .
first : though most man have some vague flit idea of the general peril of the grand fishery , yet they have nothing like a fix , vivid conception of those peril , and the frequency with which they recur . one reason perhaps be , that not one in fifty of the actual disaster and death by casualty in the fishery , ever find a public record at home , however transient and immediately forget that record . do you suppose that that poor fellow there , who this moment perhaps catch by the whale - line off the coast of new guinea , be be carry down to the bottom of the sea by the sound leviathan -- do you suppose that that poor fellow 's name will appear in the newspaper obituary you will read to - morrow at your breakfast ? no : because the mail be very irregular between here and new guinea . in fact , do you ever hear what might be call regular news direct or indirect from new guinea ? yet i tell you that upon one particular voyage which i make to the pacific , among many other we speak thirty different ship , every one of which have have a death by a whale , some of they more than one , and three that have each lose a boat 's crew . for god 's sake , be economical with your lamp and candle ! not a gallon you burn , but at least one drop of man 's blood be spill for it .
secondly : people ashore have indeed some indefinite idea that a whale be an enormous creature of enormous power ; but i have ever find that when narrate to they some specific example of this two - fold enormousness , they have significantly compliment i upon my facetiousness ; when , i declare upon my soul , i have no more idea of be facetious than moses , when he write the history of the plague of egypt .
but fortunately the special point i here seek can be establish upon testimony entirely independent of my own . that point be this : the sperm whale be in some case sufficiently powerful , know , and judiciously malicious , as with direct aforethought to stave in , utterly destroy , and sink a large ship ; and what be more , the sperm whale have do it .
first : in the year 1820 the ship essex , captain pollard , of nantucket , be cruise in the pacific ocean . one day she see spout , lower her boat , and give chase to a shoal of sperm whale . ere long , several of the whale be wound ; when , suddenly , a very large whale escape from the boat , issue from the shoal , and bear directly down upon the ship . dash his forehead against her hull , he so stove she in , that in less than " ten minute " she settle down and fall over . not a survive plank of she have be see since . after the severe exposure , part of the crew reach the land in their boat . be return home at last , captain pollard once more sail for the pacific in command of another ship , but the god shipwreck he again upon unknown rock and breaker ; for the second time his ship be utterly lose , and forthwith forswear the sea , he have never tempt it since . at this day captain pollard be a resident of nantucket . i have see owen chace , who be chief mate of the essex at the time of the tragedy ; i have read his plain and faithful narrative ; i have converse with his son ; and all this within a few mile of the scene of the catastrophe . *
* the follow be extract from chace 's narrative : " every fact seem to warrant i in conclude that it be anything but chance which direct his operation ; he make two several attack upon the ship , at a short interval between they , both of which , accord to their direction , be calculate to do we the most injury , by be make ahead , and thereby combine the speed of the two object for the shock ; to effect which , the exact manoeuvre which he make be necessary . his aspect be most horrible , and such as indicate resentment and fury . he come directly from the shoal which we have just before enter , and in which we have strike three of his companion , as if fire with revenge for their suffering . " again : " at all event , the whole circumstance take together , all happen before my own eye , and produce , at the time , impression in my mind of decide , calculate mischief , on the part of the whale ( many of which impression i can not now recall ) , induce i to be satisfied that i be correct in my opinion . "
here be his reflection some time after quit the ship , during a black night an open boat , when almost despairing of reach any hospitable shore . " the dark ocean and swelling water be nothing ; the fear of be swallow up by some dreadful temp , or dash upon hide rock , with all the other ordinary subject of fearful contemplation , seem scarcely entitle to a moment 's thought ; the dismal look wreck , and the horrid aspect and revenge of the whale , wholly engross my reflection , until day again make its appearance . "
in another place -- p. 45,--he speak of " the mysterious and mortal attack of the animal . "
secondly : the ship union , also of nantucket , be in the year 1807 totally lose off the azores by a similar onset , but the authentic particular of this catastrophe i have never chance to encounter , though from the whale hunter i have now and then hear casual allusion to it .
thirdly : some eighteen or twenty year ago commodore j--- , then command an american sloop - of - war of the first class , happen to be din with a party of whale captain , on board a nantucket ship in the harbor of oahu , sandwich islands . conversation turn upon whale , the commodore be pleased to be sceptical touch the amazing strength ascribe to they by the professional gentleman present . he peremptorily deny for example , that any whale could so smite his stout sloop - of - war as to cause she to leak so much as a thimbleful . very good ; but there be more come . some week after , the commodore set sail in this impregnable craft for valparaiso . but he be stop on the way by a portly sperm whale , that beg a few moment ' confidential business with he . that business consist in fetch the commodore 's craft such a thwack , that with all his pump go he make straight for the near port to heave down and repair . i be not superstitious , but i consider the commodore 's interview with that whale as providential . be not saul of tarsus convert from unbelief by a similar fright ? i tell you , the sperm whale will stand no nonsense .
i will now refer you to langsdorff 's voyages for a little circumstance in point , peculiarly interesting to the writer hereof . langsdorff , you must know by the way , be attach to the russian admiral krusenstern 's famous discovery expedition in the beginning of the present century . captain langsdorff thus begin his seventeenth chapter :
" by the thirteenth of may our ship be ready to sail , and the next day we be out in the open sea , on our way to ochotsh . the weather be very clear and fine , but so intolerably cold that we be oblige to keep on our fur clothing . for some day we have very little wind ; it be not till the nineteenth that a brisk gale from the northwest spring up . an uncommon large whale , the body of which be large than the ship itself , lie almost at the surface of the water , but be not perceive by any one on board till the moment when the ship , which be in full sail , be almost upon he , so that it be impossible to prevent its striking against he . we be thus place in the most imminent danger , as this gigantic creature , set up its back , raise the ship three foot at least out of the water . the mast reel , and the sail fall altogether , while we who be below all spring instantly upon the deck , conclude that we have strike upon some rock ; instead of this we see the monster sailing off with the utmost gravity and solemnity . captain d'wolf apply immediately to the pump to examine whether or not the vessel have receive any damage from the shock , but we find that very happily it have escape entirely uninjured . "
now , the captain d'wolf here allude to as command the ship in question , be a new englander , who , after a long life of unusual adventure as a sea - captain , this day reside in the village of dorchester near boston . i have the honour of be a nephew of his . i have particularly question he concern this passage in langsdorff . he substantiate every word . the ship , however , be by no mean a large one : a russian craft build on the siberian coast , and purchase by my uncle after barter away the vessel in which he sail from home .
in that up and down manly book of old - fashioned adventure , so full , too , of honest wonder -- the voyage of lionel wafer , one of ancient dampier 's old chum -- i find a little matter set down so like that just quote from langsdorff , that i can not forbear insert it here for a corroborative example , if such be need .
lionel , it seem , be on his way to " john ferdinando , " as he call the modern juan fernandes . " in our way thither , " he say , " about four o'clock in the morning , when we be about one hundred and fifty league from the main of america , our ship feel a terrible shock , which put our man in such consternation that they could hardly tell where they be or what to think ; but every one begin to prepare for death . and , indeed , the shock be so sudden and violent , that we take it for grant the ship have strike against a rock ; but when the amazement be a little over , we cast the lead , and sound , but find no ground . .... the suddenness of the shock make the gun leap in their carriage , and several of the man be shake out of their hammock . captain davis , who lie with his head on a gun , be throw out of his cabin ! " lionel then go on to impute the shock to an earthquake , and seem to substantiate the imputation by state that a great earthquake , somewhere about that time , do actually do great mischief along the spanish land . but i should not much wonder if , in the darkness of that early hour of the morning , the shock be after all cause by an unseen whale vertically bump the hull from beneath .
i might proceed with several more example , one way or another know to i , of the great power and malice at time of the sperm whale . in more than one instance , he have be know , not only to chase the assailing boat back to their ship , but to pursue the ship itself , and long withstand all the lance hurl at he from its deck . the english ship pusie hall can tell a story on that head ; and , as for his strength , let i say , that there have be example where the line attach to a run sperm whale have , in a calm , be transfer to the ship , and secure there ; the whale tow her great hull through the water , as a horse walk off with a cart . again , it be very often observe that , if the sperm whale , once strike , be allow time to rally , he then act , not so often with blind rage , as with wilful , deliberate design of destruction to his pursuer ; nor be it without convey some eloquent indication of his character , that upon be attack he will frequently open his mouth , and retain it in that dread expansion for several consecutive minute . but i must be content with only one more and a concluding illustration ; a remarkable and most significant one , by which you will not fail to see , that not only be the most marvellous event in this book corroborate by plain fact of the present day , but that these marvel ( like all marvel ) be mere repetition of the age ; so that for the millionth time we say amen with solomon -- verily there be nothing new under the sun .
in the sixth christian century live procopius , a christian magistrate of constantinople , in the day when justinian be emperor and belisarius general . as many know , he write the history of his own time , a work every way of uncommon value . by the good authority , he have always be consider a most trustworthy and unexaggerating historian , except in some one or two particular , not at all affect the matter presently to be mention .
now , in this history of his , procopius mention that , during the term of his prefecture at constantinople , a great sea - monster be capture in the neighboring propontis , or sea of marmora , after having destroy vessel at interval in those water for a period of more than fifty year . a fact thus set down in substantial history can not easily be gainsay . nor be there any reason it should be . of what precise specie this sea - monster be , be not mention . but as he destroy ship , as well as for other reason , he must have be a whale ; and i be strongly inclined to think a sperm whale . and i will tell you why . for a long time i fancy that the sperm whale have be always unknown in the mediterranean and the deep water connect with it . even now i be certain that those sea be not , and perhaps never can be , in the present constitution of thing , a place for his habitual gregarious resort . but further investigation have recently prove to i , that in modern time there have be isolate instance of the presence of the sperm whale in the mediterranean . i be tell , on good authority , that on the barbary coast , a commodore davis of the british navy find the skeleton of a sperm whale . now , as a vessel of war readily pass through the dardanelles , hence a sperm whale could , by the same route , pass out of the mediterranean into the propontis .
in the propontis , as far as i can learn , none of that peculiar substance call brit be to be find , the aliment of the right whale . but i have every reason to believe that the food of the sperm whale -- squid or cuttle - fish -- lurk at the bottom of that sea , because large creature , but by no mean the large of that sort , have be find at its surface . if , then , you properly put these statement together , and reason upon they a bit , you will clearly perceive that , accord to all human reasoning , procopius 's sea - monster , that for half a century stove the ship of a roman emperor , must in all probability have be a sperm whale .
chapter 46
surmise .
though , consume with the hot fire of his purpose , ahab in all his thought and action ever have in view the ultimate capture of moby dick ; though he seem ready to sacrifice all mortal interest to that one passion ; nevertheless it may have be that he be by nature and long habituation far too wed to a fiery whaleman 's way , altogether to abandon the collateral prosecution of the voyage . or at least if this be otherwise , there be not want other motif much more influential with he . it would be refine too much , perhaps , even consider his monomania , to hint that his vindictiveness towards the white whale might have possibly extend itself in some degree to all sperm whale , and that the more monster he slay by so much the more he multiply the chance that each subsequently encounter whale would prove to be the hat one he hunt . but if such an hypothesis be indeed exceptionable , there be still additional consideration which , though not so strictly accord with the wildness of his rule passion , yet be by no mean incapable of sway he .
to accomplish his object ahab must use tool ; and of all tool use in the shadow of the moon , man be most apt to get out of order . he know , for example , that however magnetic his ascendency in some respect be over starbuck , yet that ascendency do not cover the complete spiritual man any more than mere corporeal superiority involve intellectual mastership ; for to the purely spiritual , the intellectual but stand in a sort of corporeal relation . starbuck 's body and starbuck 's coerced will be ahab 's , so long as ahab keep his magnet at starbuck 's brain ; still he know that for all this the chief mate , in his soul , abhor his captain 's quest , and could he , would joyfully disintegrate himself from it , or even frustrate it . it might be that a long interval would elapse ere the white whale be see . during that long interval starbuck would ever be apt to fall into open relapse of rebellion against his captain 's leadership , unless some ordinary , prudential , circumstantial influence be bring to bear upon he . not only that , but the subtle insanity of ahab respect moby dick be noway more significantly manifest than in his superlative sense and shrewdness in foresee that , for the present , the hunt should in some way be strip of that strange imaginative impiousness which naturally invest it ; that the full terror of the voyage must be keep withdraw into the obscure background ( for few man 's courage be proof against protract meditation unrelieve by action ) ; that when they stand their long night watch , his officer and man must have some near thing to think of than moby dick . for however eagerly and impetuously the savage crew have hail the announcement of his quest ; yet all sailor of all sort be more or less capricious and unreliable -- they live in the vary outer weather , and they inhale its fickleness -- and when retain for any object remote and blank in the pursuit , however promissory of life and passion in the end , it be above all thing requisite that temporary interest and employment should intervene and hold they healthily suspend for the final dash .
nor be ahab unmindful of another thing . in time of strong emotion mankind disdain all base consideration ; but such time be evanescent . the permanent constitutional condition of the manufactured man , think ahab , be sordidness . grant that the white whale fully incite the heart of this my savage crew , and play round their savageness even breed a certain generous knight - errantism in they , still , while for the love of it they give chase to moby dick , they must also have food for their more common , daily appetite . for even the high lifted and chivalric crusaders of old time be not content to traverse two thousand mile of land to fight for their holy sepulchre , without commit burglary , pick pocket , and gain other pious perquisite by the way . have they be strictly hold to their one final and romantic object -- that final and romantic object , too many would have turn from in disgust . i will not strip these man , think ahab , of all hope of cash -- aye , cash . they may scorn cash now ; but let some month go by , and no perspective promise of it to they , and then this same quiescent cash all at once mutiny in they , this same cash would soon cashier ahab .
nor be there want still another precautionary motive more related to ahab personally . having impulsively , it be probable , and perhaps somewhat prematurely reveal the prime but private purpose of the pequod 's voyage , ahab be now entirely conscious that , in so do , he have indirectly lay himself open to the unanswerable charge of usurpation ; and with perfect impunity , both moral and legal , his crew if so dispose , and to that end competent , could refuse all further obedience to he , and even violently wrest from he the command . from even the barely hint imputation of usurpation , and the possible consequence of such a suppress impression gain ground , ahab must of course have be most anxious to protect himself . that protection could only consist in his own predominating brain and heart and hand , back by a heedful , closely calculate attention to every minute atmospheric influence which it be possible for his crew to be subject to .
for all these reason then , and other perhaps too analytic to be verbally develop here , ahab plainly see that he must still in a good degree continue true to the natural , nominal purpose of the pequod 's voyage ; observe all customary usage ; and not only that , but force himself to evince all his well know passionate interest in the general pursuit of his profession .
be all this as it may , his voice be now often hear hail the three mast - head and admonish they to keep a bright look - out , and not omit report even a porpoise . this vigilance be not long without reward .
chapter 47
the mat - maker .
it be a cloudy , sultry afternoon ; the seaman be lazily lounge about the deck , or vacantly gaze over into the lead - colour water . queequeg and i be mildly employ weaving what be call a sword - mat , for an additional lashing to our boat . so still and subdue and yet somehow prelude be all the scene , and such an incantation of reverie lurk in the air , that each silent sailor seemed resolve into his own invisible self .
i be the attendant or page of queequeg , while busy at the mat . as i keep pass and repasse the filling or woof of marline between the long yarn of the warp , use my own hand for the shuttle , and as queequeg , standing sideways , ever and anon slide his heavy oaken sword between the thread , and idly look off upon the water , carelessly and unthinkingly drive home every yarn : i say so strange a dreaminess do there then reign all over the ship and all over the sea , only break by the intermitting dull sound of the sword , that it seem as if this be the loom of time , and i myself be a shuttle mechanically weave and weave away at the fates . there lie the fix thread of the warp subject to but one single , ever return , unchanging vibration , and that vibration merely enough to admit of the crosswise interblende of other thread with its own . this warp seem necessity ; and here , think i , with my own hand i ply my own shuttle and weave my own destiny into these unalterable thread . meantime , queequeg 's impulsive , indifferent sword , sometimes hit the woof slantingly , or crookedly , or strongly , or weakly , as the case might be ; and by this difference in the concluding blow produce a corresponding contrast in the final aspect of the complete fabric ; this savage 's sword , think i , which thus finally shape and fashion both warp and woof ; this easy , indifferent sword must be chance -- aye , chance , free will , and necessity -- nowise incompatible -- all interweavingly work together . the straight warp of necessity , not to be swerve from its ultimate course -- its every alternate vibration , indeed , only tend to that ; free will still free to ply her shuttle between give thread ; and chance , though restrain in its play within the right line of necessity , and sideways in its motion direct by free will , though thus prescribe to by both , chance by turn rule either , and have the last featuring blow at event .
thus we be weave and weave away when i start at a sound so strange , long draw , and musically wild and unearthly , that the ball of free will drop from my hand , and i stand gaze up at the cloud whence that voice drop like a wing . high aloft in the cross - tree be that mad gay - header , tashtego . his body be reach eagerly forward , his hand stretch out like a wand , and at brief sudden interval he continue his cry . to be sure the same sound be that very moment perhaps be hear all over the sea , from hundred of whaleman 's look - out perch as high in the air ; but from few of those lung could that accustomed old cry have derive such a marvellous cadence as from tashtego the indian 's .
as he stand hover over you half suspend in air , so wildly and eagerly peer towards the horizon , you would have think he some prophet or seer behold the shadow of fate , and by those wild cry announce their coming .
" there she blow ! there ! there ! there ! she blow ! she blow ! "
" where - away ? "
" on the lee - beam , about two mile off ! a school of they ! "
instantly all be commotion .
the sperm whale blow as a clock tick , with the same undeviating and reliable uniformity . and thereby whaleman distinguish this fish from other tribe of his genus .
" there go fluke ! " be now the cry from tashtego ; and the whale disappear .
" quick , steward ! " cry ahab . " time ! time ! "
dough - boy hurry below , glance at the watch , and report the exact minute to ahab .
the ship be now keep away from the wind , and she went gently roll before it . tashtego report that the whale have go down head to leeward , we confidently look to see they again directly in advance of our bow . for that singular craft at time evince by the sperm whale when , sound with his head in one direction , he nevertheless , while conceal beneath the surface , mill round , and swiftly swim off in the opposite quarter -- this deceitfulness of his could not now be in action ; for there be no reason to suppose that the fish see by tashtego have be in any way alarm , or indeed know at all of our vicinity . one of the man select for shipkeeper -- that is , those not appoint to the boat , by this time relieve the indian at the main - mast head . the sailor at the fore and mizzen have come down ; the line tub be fix in their place ; the crane be thrust out ; the mainyard be back , and the three boat swing over the sea like three samphire basket over high cliff . outside of the bulwark their eager crew with one hand clung to the rail , while one foot be expectantly poise on the gunwale . so look the long line of man - of - war 's man about to throw themselves on board an enemy 's ship .
but at this critical instant a sudden exclamation be hear that take every eye from the whale . with a start all glare at dark ahab , who be surround by five dusky phantom that seem fresh form out of air .
chapter 48
the first lowering .
the phantom , for so they then seem , be flit on the other side of the deck , and , with a noiseless celerity , be cast loose the tackle and band of the boat which swing there . this boat have always be deem one of the spare boat , though technically call the captain 's , on account of its hanging from the starboard quarter . the figure that now stand by its bow be tall and swart , with one white tooth evilly protrude from its steel - like lip . a rumpled chinese jacket of black cotton funereally invest he , with wide black trowser of the same dark stuff . but strangely crown this ebonness be a glistening white plait turban , the live hair braid and coil round and round upon his head . less swart in aspect , the companion of this figure be of that vivid , tiger - yellow complexion peculiar to some of the aboriginal native of the manillas;--a race notorious for a certain diabolism of subtilty , and by some honest white mariner suppose to be the pay spy and secret confidential agent on the water of the devil , their lord , whose counting - room they suppose to be elsewhere .
while yet the wonder ship 's company be gaze upon these stranger , ahab cry out to the white - turbane old man at their head , " all ready there , fedallah ? "
" ready , " be the half - hiss reply .
" lower away then ; d'ye hear ? " shout across the deck . " lower away there , i say . "
such be the thunder of his voice , that spite of their amazement the man spring over the rail ; the sheaf whirl round in the block ; with a wallow , the three boat drop into the sea ; while , with a dexterous , off - handed daring , unknown in any other vocation , the sailor , goat - like , leap down the roll ship 's side into the tossed boat below .
hardly have they pull out from under the ship 's lee , when a fourth keel , come from the windward side , pull round under the stern , and show the five stranger row ahab , who , stand erect in the stern , loudly hail starbuck , stubb , and flask , to spread themselves widely , so as to cover a large expanse of water . but with all their eye again rivet upon the swart fedallah and his crew , the inmate of the other boat obey not the command .
" captain ahab?-- " say starbuck .
" spread yourself , " cry ahab ; " give way , all four boat . thou , flask , pull out more to leeward ! "
" aye , aye , sir , " cheerily cry little king - post , sweeping round his great steering oar . " lay back ! " address his crew . " there!--there!--there again ! there she blow right ahead , boys!--lay back ! "
" never heed yonder yellow boy , archy . "
" oh , i do not mind'em , sir , " say archy ; " i know it all before now . do not i hear them in the hold ? and do not i tell cabaco here of it ? what say ye , cabaco ? they be stowaway , mr. flask . "
" pull , pull , my fine heart - alive ; pull , my child ; pull , my little one , " drawlingly and soothingly sigh stubb to his crew , some of whom still show sign of uneasiness . " why do not you break your backbone , my boy ? what be it you stare at ? those chap in yonder boat ? tut ! they be only five more hand come to help we -- never mind from where -- the more the merrier . pull , then , do pull ; never mind the brimstone -- devil be good fellow enough . so , so ; there you be now ; that be the stroke for a thousand pound ; that be the stroke to sweep the stake ! hurrah for the gold cup of sperm oil , my hero ! three cheer , man -- all heart alive ! easy , easy ; do not be in a hurry -- don't be in a hurry . why do not you snap your oar , you rascal ? bite something , you dog ! so , so , so , then:--softly , softly ! that be it -- that be it ! long and strong . give way there , give way ! the devil fetch ye , ye ragamuffin rapscallion ; ye be all asleep . stop snore , ye sleeper , and pull . pull , will ye ? pull , can not ye ? pull , will not ye ? why in the name of gudgeon and ginger - cake do not ye pull?--pull and break something ! pull , and start your eye out ! here ! " whip out the sharp knife from his girdle ; " every mother 's son of ye draw his knife , and pull with the blade between his tooth . that be it -- that be it . now ye do something ; that look like it , my steel - bit . start she -- start she , my silver - spoon ! start she , marling - spike ! "
stubb 's exordium to his crew be give here at large , because he have rather a peculiar way of talk to they in general , and especially in inculcate the religion of rowing . but you must not suppose from this speciman of his sermonizing that he ever fly into downright passion with his congregation . not at all ; and therein consist his chief peculiarity . he would say the most terrific thing to his crew , in a tone so strangely compound of fun and fury , and the fury seem so calculate merely as a spice to the fun , that no oarsman could hear such queer invocation without pull for dear life , and yet pull for the mere joke of the thing . besides he all the time look so easy and indolent himself , so loungingly manage his steering - oar , and so broadly gap -- open - mouthed at time -- that the mere sight of such a yawning commander , by sheer force of contrast , act like a charm upon the crew . then again , stubb be one of those odd sort of humorist , whose jollity be sometimes so curiously ambiguous , as to put all inferior on their guard in the matter of obey they .
in obedience to a sign from ahab , starbuck be now pull obliquely across stubb 's bow ; and when for a minute or so the two boat be pretty near to each other , stubb hail the mate .
" mr. starbuck ! larboard boat there , ahoy ! a word with ye , sir , if ye please ! "
" halloa ! " return starbuck , turn round not a single inch as he speak ; still earnestly but whisperingly urge his crew ; his face set like a flint from stubb 's .
" what think ye of those yellow boy , sir !
" smuggle on board , somehow , before the ship sail . ( strong , strong , boy ! ) " in a whisper to his crew , then speak out loud again : " a sad business , mr. stubb ! ( seethe she , seethe she , my lad ! ) but never mind , mr. stubb , all for the good . let all your crew pull strong , come what will . ( spring , my man , spring ! ) there ' hogshead of sperm ahead , mr. stubb , and that be what ye come for . ( pull , my boy ! ) sperm , sperm 's the play ! this at least be duty ; duty and profit hand in hand . "
" aye , aye , i think as much , " soliloquize stubb , when the boat diverge , " as soon as i clapt eye on them , i think so . aye , and that be what he go into the after hold for , so often , as dough - boy long suspect . they be hide down there . the white whale 's at the bottom of it . well , well , so be it ! can not be help ! all right ! give way , man ! it be not the white whale to - day ! give way ! "
now the advent of these outlandish stranger at such a critical instant as the lowering of the boat from the deck , this have not unreasonably awaken a sort of superstitious amazement in some of the ship 's company ; but archy 's fancied discovery have some time previous get abroad among they , though indeed not credit then , this have in some small measure prepare they for the event . it take off the extreme edge of their wonder ; and so what with all this and stubb 's confident way of accounting for their appearance , they be for the time free from superstitious surmising ; though the affair still leave abundant room for all manner of wild conjecture as to dark ahab 's precise agency in the matter from the beginning . for i , i silently recall the mysterious shadow i have see creep on board the pequod during the dim nantucket dawn , as well as the enigmatical hinting of the unaccountable elijah .
meantime , ahab , out of hearing of his officer , having side the furth to windward , be still range ahead of the other boat ; a circumstance bespeak how potent a crew be pull he . those tiger yellow creature of his seem all steel and whalebone ; like five trip - hammer they rise and fall with regular stroke of strength , which periodically start the boat along the water like a horizontal burst boiler out of a mississippi steamer . as for fedallah , who be see pull the harpooneer oar , he have throw aside his black jacket , and display his naked chest with the whole part of his body above the gunwale , clearly cut against the alternate depression of the watery horizon ; while at the other end of the boat ahab , with one arm , like a fencer 's , throw half backward into the air , as if to counterbalance any tendency to trip ; ahab be see steadily manage his steering oar as in a thousand boat lowering ere the white whale have tear he . all at once the outstretched arm give a peculiar motion and then remain fix , while the boat 's five oar be see simultaneously peak . boat and crew sit motionless on the sea . instantly the three spread boat in the rear pause on their way . the whale have irregularly settle bodily down into the blue , thus give no distantly discernible token of the movement , though from his close vicinity ahab have observe it .
" every man look out along his oar ! " cry starbuck . " thou , queequeg , stand up ! "
nimbly spring up on the triangular raise box in the bow , the savage stand erect there , and with intensely eager eye gaze off towards the spot where the chase have last be descry . likewise upon the extreme stern of the boat where it be also triangularly platforme level with the gunwale , starbuck himself be see coolly and adroitly balance himself to the jerk tossing of his chip of a craft , and silently eye the vast blue eye of the sea .
not very far distant flask 's boat be also lie breathlessly still ; its commander recklessly stand upon the top of the loggerhead , a stout sort of post root in the keel , and rise some two foot above the level of the stern platform . it be use for catch turn with the whale line . its top be not more spacious than the palm of a man 's hand , and stand upon such a base as that , flask seem perch at the mast - head of some ship which have sink to all but her truck . but little king - post be small and short , and at the same time little king - post be full of a large and tall ambition , so that this loggerhead stand - point of his do by no means satisfy king - post .
" i can not see three sea off ; tip we up an oar there , and let i on to that . "
upon this , daggoo , with either hand upon the gunwale to steady his way , swiftly slid aft , and then erect himself volunteer his lofty shoulder for a pedestal .
" good a mast - head as any , sir . will you mount ? "
" that i will , and thank ye very much , my fine fellow ; only i wish you fifty foot tall . "
whereupon plant his foot firmly against two opposite plank of the boat , the gigantic negro , stoop a little , present his flat palm to flask 's foot , and then put flask 's hand on his hearse - plume head and bid he spring as he himself should toss , with one dexterous fling land the little man high and dry on his shoulder . and here be flask now stand , daggoo with one lift arm furnish he with a breastband to lean against and steady himself by .
at any time it be a strange sight to the tyro to see with what wondrous habitude of unconscious skill the whaleman will maintain an erect posture in his boat , even when pitch about by the most riotously perverse and cross - running sea . still more strange to see he giddily perch upon the loggerhead itself , under such circumstance . but the sight of little flask mount upon gigantic daggoo be yet more curious ; for sustain himself with a cool , indifferent , easy , unthought of , barbaric majesty , the noble negro to every roll of the sea harmoniously roll his fine form . on his broad back , flaxen - haired flask seem a snow - flake . the bearer look noble than the rider . though truly vivacious , tumultuous , ostentatious little flask would now and then stamp with impatience ; but not one add heave do he thereby give to the negro 's lordly chest . so have i see passion and vanity stamp the live magnanimous earth , but the earth do not alter her tide and her season for that .
meanwhile stubb , the third mate , betray no such far - gaze solicitude . the whale might have make one of their regular sounding , not a temporary dive from mere fright ; and if that be the case , stubb , as his will not in such case , it seem , be resolve to solace the languish interval with his pipe . he withdraw it from his hatband , where he always wear it aslant like a feather . he load it , and ram home the loading with his thumb - end ; but hardly have he ignite his match across the rough sandpaper of his hand , when tashtego , his harpooneer , whose eye have be set to windward like two fix star , suddenly drop like light from his erect attitude to his seat , cry out in a quick phrensy of hurry , " down , down all , and give way!--there they be ! "
to a landsman , no whale , nor any sign of a herring , would have be visible at that moment ; nothing but a troubled bit of greenish white water , and thin scatter puff of vapour hover over it , and suffusingly blow off to leeward , like the confused scud from white rolling billow . the air around suddenly vibrate and tingle , as it be , like the air over intensely heated plate of iron . beneath this atmospheric waving and curling , and partially beneath a thin layer of water , also , the whale be swim . see in advance of all the other indication , the puff of vapour they spout , seem their forerun courier and detach fly outrider .
all four boat be now in keen pursuit of that one spot of troubled water and air . but it bid fair to outstrip they ; it fly on and on , as a mass of interblende bubble bear down a rapid stream from the hill .
" pull , pull , my good boy , " say starbuck , in the low possible but intensest concentrated whisper to his man ; while the sharp fix glance from his eye dart straight ahead of the bow , almost seem as two visible needle in two unerring binnacle compass . he do not say much to his crew , though , nor do his crew say anything to he . only the silence of the boat be at interval startlingly pierce by one of his peculiar whisper , now harsh with command , now soft with entreaty .
how different the loud little king - post . " sing out and say something , my heartie . roar and pull , my thunderbolt ! beach i , beach i on their black back , boy ; only do that for i , and i will sign over to you my martha 's vineyard plantation , boy ; include wife and child , boy . lay i on -- lie i on ! o lord , lord ! but i shall go stark , star mad ! see ! see that white water ! " and so shout , he pull his hat from his head , and stamp up and down on it ; then pick it up , flirt it far off upon the sea ; and finally fall to rear and plunge in the boat 's stern like a craze colt from the prairie .
" look at that chap now , " philosophically drawled stubb , who , with his unlighted short pipe , mechanically retain between his tooth , at a short distance , follow after--"he 's get fit , that flask have . fit ? yes , give he fit -- that be the very word -- pitch fit into them . merrily , merrily , heart - alive . pudding for supper , you know;--merry 's the word . pull , babe -- pull , suckling -- pull , all . but what the devil be you hurry about ? softly , softly , and steadily , my man . only pull , and keep pull ; nothing more . crack all your backbone , and bite your knife in two -- that be all . take it easy -- why do not ye take it easy , i say , and burst all your liver and lung ! "
but what it be that inscrutable ahab say to that tiger - yellow crew of his -- these be word well omit here ; for you live under the blessed light of the evangelical land . only the infidel shark in the audacious sea may give ear to such word , when , with tornado brow , and eye of red murder , and foam - glue lip , ahab leap after his prey .
meanwhile , all the boat tear on . the repeat specific allusion of flask to " that whale , " as he call the fictitious monster which he declare to be incessantly tantalize his boat 's bow with its tail -- these allusion of his be at time so vivid and life - like , that they would cause some one or two of his man to snatch a fearful look over the shoulder . but this be against all rule ; for the oarsman must put out their eye , and ram a skewer through their neck ; usage pronounce that they must have no organ but ear , and no limb but arm , in these critical moment .
it be a sight full of quick wonder and awe ! the vast swell of the omnipotent sea ; the surge , hollow roar they make , as they roll along the eight gunwale , like gigantic bowl in a boundless bowling - green ; the brief suspend agony of the boat , as it would tip for an instant on the knife - like edge of the sharp wave , that almost seem threaten to cut it in two ; the sudden profound dip into the watery glen and hollow ; the keen spurring and goading to gain the top of the opposite hill ; the headlong , sle - like slide down its other side;--all these , with the cry of the headsman and harpooneer , and the shudder gasp of the oarsman , with the wondrous sight of the ivory pequod bear down upon her boat with outstretched sail , like a wild hen after her scream brood;--all this be thrill .
not the raw recruit , march from the bosom of his wife into the fever heat of his first battle ; not the dead man 's ghost encounter the first unknown phantom in the other world;--neither of these can feel strange and strong emotion than that man do , who for the first time find himself pull into the charm , churn circle of the hunt sperm whale .
the dance white water make by the chase be now become more and more visible , owe to the increase darkness of the dun cloud - shadow fling upon the sea . the jet of vapour no long blend , but tilt everywhere to right and leave ; the whale seem separate their wake . the boat be pull more apart ; starbuck give chase to three whale run dead to leeward . our sail be now set , and , with the still rise wind , we rush along ; the boat go with such madness through the water , that the lee oar could scarcely be work rapidly enough to escape be tear from the row - lock .
soon we be run through a suffuse wide veil of mist ; neither ship nor boat to be see .
" give way , man , " whisper starbuck , draw still far aft the sheet of his sail ; " there be time to kill a fish yet before the squall come . there be white water again!--close to ! spring ! "
soon after , two cry in quick succession on each side of we denote that the other boat have get fast ; but hardly be they overhear , when with a lightning - like hurtle whisper starbuck say : " stand up ! " and queequeg , harpoon in hand , spring to his foot .
though not one of the oarsman be then face the life and death peril so close to they ahead , yet with their eye on the intense countenance of the mate in the stern of the boat , they know that the imminent instant have come ; they hear , too , an enormous wallowing sound as of fifty elephant stir in their litter . meanwhile the boat be still boom through the mist , the wave curl and hiss around we like the erect crest of enraged serpent .
" that be his hump . there , there , give it to he ! " whisper starbuck .
a short rushing sound leap out of the boat ; it be the darted iron of queequeg . then all in one weld commotion come an invisible push from astern , while forward the boat seem strike on a ledge ; the sail collapse and explode ; a gush of scald vapour shoot up near by ; something roll and tumble like an earthquake beneath we . the whole crew be half suffocated as they be toss helter - skelter into the white curdling cream of the squall . squall , whale , and harpoon have all blend together ; and the whale , merely graze by the iron , escape .
though completely swamp , the boat be nearly unharmed . swimming round it we pick up the float oar , and lash they across the gunwale , tumble back to our place . there we sit up to our knee in the sea , the water cover every rib and plank , so that to our downward gaze eye the suspend craft seem a coral boat grow up to we from the bottom of the ocean .
the wind increase to a howl ; the wave dash their buckler together ; the whole squall roar , fork , and crackle around we like a white fire upon the prairie , in which , unconsumed , we be burn ; immortal in these jaw of death ! in vain we hail the other boat ; as well roar to the live coal down the chimney of a flame furnace as hail those boat in that storm . meanwhile the drive scud , rack , and mist , grow dark with the shadow of night ; no sign of the ship could be see . the rise sea forbid all attempt to bale out the boat . the oar be useless as propeller , perform now the office of life - preserver . so , cut the lashing of the waterproof match keg , after many failure starbuck contrive to ignite the lamp in the lantern ; then stretch it on a waif pole , hand it to queequeg as the standard - bearer of this forlorn hope . there , then , he sit , hold up that imbecile candle in the heart of that almighty forlornness . there , then , he sit , the sign and symbol of a man without faith , hopelessly hold up hope in the midst of despair .
wet , drench through , and shiver cold , despair of ship or boat , we lift up our eye as the dawn come on . the mist still spread over the sea , the empty lantern lie crush in the bottom of the boat . suddenly queequeg start to his foot , hollow his hand to his ear . we all hear a faint creaking , as of rope and yard hitherto muffle by the storm . the sound come near and nearer ; the thick mist be dimly part by a huge , vague form . affright , we all spring into the sea as the ship at last loom into view , bear right down upon we within a distance of not much more than its length .
float on the wave we see the abandon boat , as for one instant it toss and gap beneath the ship 's bow like a chip at the base of a cataract ; and then the vast hull roll over it , and it be see no more till it come up welter astern . again we swam for it , be dash against it by the sea , and be at last take up and safely land on board . ere the squall come close to , the other boat have cut loose from their fish and return to the ship in good time . the ship have give we up , but be still cruise , if haply it might light upon some token of our perishing,--an oar or a lance pole .
chapter 49
the hyena .
there be certain queer time and occasion in this strange mixed affair we call life when a man take this whole universe for a vast practical joke , though the wit thereof he but dimly discern , and more than suspect that the joke be at nobody 's expense but his own . however , nothing dispirit , and nothing seem worth while dispute . he bolt down all event , all creed , and belief , and persuasion , all hard thing visible and invisible , never mind how knobby ; as an ostrich of potent digestion gobble down bullet and gun flint . and as for small difficulty and worrying , prospect of sudden disaster , peril of life and limb ; all these , and death itself , seem to he only sly , good - natured hit , and jolly punch in the side bestow by the unseen and unaccountable old joker . that odd sort of wayward mood i be speak of , come over a man only in some time of extreme tribulation ; it come in the very midst of his earnestness , so that what just before might have seem to he a thing most momentous , now seem but a part of the general joke . there be nothing like the peril of whale to breed this free and easy sort of genial , desperado philosophy ; and with it i now regard this whole voyage of the pequod , and the great white whale its object .
" queequeg , " say i , when they have drag i , the last man , to the deck , and i be still shake myself in my jacket to fle off the water ; " queequeg , my fine friend , do this sort of thing often happen ? " without much emotion , though soak through just like i , he give i to understand that such thing do often happen .
" mr. stubb , " say i , turn to that worthy , who , button up in his oil - jacket , be now calmly smoke his pipe in the rain ; " mr. stubb , i think i have hear you say that of all whaleman you ever meet , our chief mate , mr. starbuck , be by far the most careful and prudent . i suppose then , that go plump on a fly whale with your sail set in a foggy squall be the height of a whaleman 's discretion ? "
" certain . i have lower for whale from a leak ship in a gale off cape horn . "
" mr. flask , " say i , turn to little king - post , who be stand close by ; " you be experience in these thing , and i be not . will you tell i whether it be an unalterable law in this fishery , mr. flask , for an oarsman to break his own back pull himself back - foremost into death 's jaw ? "
" can not you twist that small ? " say flask . " yes , that be the law . i should like to see a boat 's crew back water up to a whale face foremost . ha , ha ! the whale would give they squint for squint , mind that ! "
here then , from three impartial witness , i have a deliberate statement of the entire case . consider , therefore , that squall and capsizing in the water and consequent bivouack on the deep , be matter of common occurrence in this kind of life ; consider that at the superlatively critical instant of go on to the whale i must resign my life into the hand of he who steer the boat -- oftentime a fellow who at that very moment be in his impetuousness upon the point of scuttle the craft with his own frantic stamping ; consider that the particular disaster to our own particular boat be chiefly to be impute to starbuck 's driving on to his whale almost in the tooth of a squall , and consider that starbuck , notwithstanding , be famous for his great heedfulness in the fishery ; consider that i belong to this uncommonly prudent starbuck 's boat ; and finally consider in what a devil 's chase i be implicate , touch the white whale : take all thing together , i say , i think i might as well go below and make a rough draft of my will . " queequeg , " say i , " come along , you shall be my lawyer , executor , and legatee . "
it may seem strange that of all man sailor should be tinker at their last will and testament , but there be no people in the world more fond of that diversion . this be the fourth time in my nautical life that i have do the same thing . after the ceremony be conclude upon the present occasion , i feel all the easy ; a stone be roll away from my heart . besides , all the day i should now live would be as good as the day that lazarus live after his resurrection ; a supplementary clean gain of so many month or week as the case might be . i survive myself ; my death and burial be lock up in my chest . i look round i tranquilly and contentedly , like a quiet ghost with a clean conscience sit inside the bar of a snug family vault .
now then , think i , unconsciously roll up the sleeve of my frock , here go for a cool , collect dive at death and destruction , and the devil fetch the hindmost .
chapter 50
ahab 's boat and crew . fedallah .
" who would have think it , flask ! " cry stubb ; " if i have but one leg you would not catch i in a boat , unless maybe to stop the plug - hole with my timber toe . oh ! he be a wonderful old man ! "
" i do not think it so strange , after all , on that account , " say flask . " if his leg be off at the hip , now , it would be a different thing . that would disable he ; but he have one knee , and good part of the other left , you know . "
" i do not know that , my little man ; i never yet see he kneel . "
among whale - wise people it have often be argue whether , consider the paramount importance of his life to the success of the voyage , it be right for a whale captain to jeopardize that life in the active peril of the chase . so tamerlane 's soldier often argue with tear in their eye , whether that invaluable life of his ought to be carry into the thickest of the fight .
but with ahab the question assume a modify aspect . consider that with two leg man be but a hobbling wight in all time of danger ; consider that the pursuit of whale be always under great and extraordinary difficulty ; that every individual moment , indeed , then comprise a peril ; under these circumstance be it wise for any maimed man to enter a whale - boat in the hunt ? as a general thing , the joint - owner of the pequod must have plainly think not .
ahab well know that although his friend at home would think little of his enter a boat in certain comparatively harmless vicissitude of the chase , for the sake of be near the scene of action and give his order in person , yet for captain ahab to have a boat actually apportion to he as a regular headsman in the hunt -- above all for captain ahab to be supply with five extra man , as that same boat 's crew , he well know that such generous conceit never enter the head of the owner of the pequod . therefore he have not solicit a boat 's crew from they , nor have he in any way hint his desire on that head . nevertheless he have take private measure of his own touch all that matter . until cabaco 's publish discovery , the sailor have little foresee it , though to be sure when , after be a little while out of port , all hand have conclude the customary business of fit the whaleboat for service ; when some time after this ahab be now and then find bestir himself in the matter of make thole - pin with his own hand for what be think to be one of the spare boat , and even solicitously cut the small wooden skewer , which when the line be run out be pin over the groove in the bow : when all this be observe in he , and particularly his solicitude in have an extra coat of sheathe in the bottom of the boat , as if to make it well withstand the pointed pressure of his ivory limb ; and also the anxiety he evince in exactly shape the thigh board , or clumsy cleat , as it be sometimes call , the horizontal piece in the boat 's bow for brace the knee against in dart or stab at the whale ; when it be observe how often he stand up in that boat with his solitary knee fix in the semi - circular depression in the cleat , and with the carpenter 's chisel gouge out a little here and straighten it a little there ; all these thing , i say , have awaken much interest and curiosity at the time . but almost everybody suppose that this particular preparative heedfulness in ahab must only be with a view to the ultimate chase of moby dick ; for he have already reveal his intention to hunt that mortal monster in person . but such a supposition do by no mean involve the remotest suspicion as to any boat 's crew be assign to that boat .
now , with the subordinate phantom , what wonder remained soon wan away ; for in a whaler wonder soon wane . besides , now and then such unaccountable odd and end of strange nation come up from the unknown nook and ash - hole of the earth to man these float outlaw of whaler ; and the ship themselves often pick up such queer castaway creature find toss about the open sea on plank , bit of wreck , oar , whaleboat , canoe , blow - off japanese junk , and what not ; that beelzebub himself might climb up the side and step down into the cabin to chat with the captain , and it would not create any unsubduable excitement in the forecastle .
but be all this as it may , certain it be that while the subordinate phantom soon find their place among the crew , though still as it be somehow distinct from they , yet that hair - turbane fedallah remain a muffled mystery to the last . whence he come in a mannerly world like this , by what sort of unaccountable tie he soon evince himself to be link with ahab 's peculiar fortune ; nay , so far as to have some sort of a half - hint influence ; heaven know , but it might have be even authority over he ; all this none know . but one can not sustain an indifferent air concern fedallah . he be such a creature as civilized , domestic people in the temperate zone only see in their dream , and that but dimly ; but the like of whom now and then glide among the unchanging asiatic community , especially the oriental isle to the east of the continent -- those insulate , immemorial , unalterable country , which even in these modern day still preserve much of the ghostly aboriginalness of earth 's primal generation , when the memory of the first man be a distinct recollection , and all man his descendant , unknowe whence he come , eye each other as real phantom , and ask of the sun and the moon why they be create and to what end ; when though , accord to genesis , the angel indeed consort with the daughter of man , the devil also , add the uncanonical rabbin , indulge in mundane amour .
chapter 51
the spirit - spout .
day , week pass , and under easy sail , the ivory pequod have slowly sweep across four several cruising - ground ; that off the azores ; off the cape de verdes ; on the plate ( so call ) , be off the mouth of the rio de la plata ; and the carrol ground , an unstaked , watery locality , southerly from st. helena .
it be while glide through these latter water that one serene and moonlight night , when all the wave roll by like scroll of silver ; and , by their soft , suffuse seething , make what seem a silvery silence , not a solitude ; on such a silent night a silvery jet be see far in advance of the white bubble at the bow . light up by the moon , it look celestial ; seem some plume and glitter god uprising from the sea . fedallah first descry this jet . for of these moonlight night , it be his will not to mount to the main - mast head , and stand a look - out there , with the same precision as if it have be day . and yet , though herd of whale be see by night , not one whaleman in a hundred would venture a lowering for they . you may think with what emotion , then , the seaman behold this old oriental perch aloft at such unusual hour ; his turban and the moon , companion in one sky . but when , after spend his uniform interval there for several successive night without utter a single sound ; when , after all this silence , his unearthly voice be hear announce that silvery , moon - light jet , every reclining mariner start to his foot as if some wing spirit have light in the rigging , and hail the mortal crew . " there she blow ! " have the trump of judgment blow , they could not have quiver more ; yet still they feel no terror ; rather pleasure . for though it be a most unwonted hour , yet so impressive be the cry , and so deliriously exciting , that almost every soul on board instinctively desire a lowering .
walk the deck with quick , side - lunge stride , ahab command the t'gallant sail and royal to be set , and every stunsail spread . the good man in the ship must take the helm . then , with every mast - head man , the pile - up craft roll down before the wind . the strange , upheaving , lift tendency of the taffrail breeze fill the hollow of so many sail , make the buoyant , hover deck to feel like air beneath the foot ; while still she rush along , as if two antagonistic influence be struggle in she -- one to mount direct to heaven , the other to drive yawingly to some horizontal goal . and have you watch ahab 's face that night , you would have think that in he also two different thing be war . while his one live leg make lively echo along the deck , every stroke of his dead limb sound like a coffin - tap . on life and death this old man walk . but though the ship so swiftly speed , and though from every eye , like arrow , the eager glance shoot , yet the silvery jet be no more see that night . every sailor swear he see it once , but not a second time .
this midnight - spout have almost grow a forget thing , when , some day after , lo ! at the same silent hour , it be again announce : again it be descry by all ; but upon make sail to overtake it , once more it disappear as if it have never be . and so it serve we night after night , till no one heed it but to wonder at it . mysteriously jet into the clear moonlight , or starlight , as the case might be ; disappear again for one whole day , or two day , or three ; and somehow seem at every distinct repetition to be advance still far and far in our van , this solitary jet seem for ever allure we on .
nor with the immemorial superstition of their race , and in accordance with the preternaturalness , as it seem , which in many thing invest the pequod , be there want some of the seaman who swear that whenever and wherever descry ; at however remote time , or in however far apart latitude and longitude , that unnearable spout be cast by one self - same whale ; and that whale , moby dick . for a time , there reign , too , a sense of peculiar dread at this flitting apparition , as if it be treacherously beckon we on and on , in order that the monster might turn round upon we , and rend we at last in the remotest and most savage sea .
these temporary apprehension , so vague but so awful , derive a wondrous potency from the contrast serenity of the weather , in which , beneath all its blue blandness , some think there lurk a devilish charm , as for day and day we voyage along , through sea so wearily , lonesomely mild , that all space , in repugnance to our vengeful errand , seem vacate itself of life before our urn - like prow .
but , at last , when turn to the eastward , the cape wind begin howl around we , and we rise and fall upon the long , troubled sea that be there ; when the ivory - tusk pequod sharply bow to the blast , and gore the dark wave in her madness , till , like shower of silver chip , the foam - flake fly over her bulwark ; then all this desolate vacuity of life go away , but give place to sight more dismal than before .
close to our bow , strange form in the water dart hither and thither before we ; while thick in our rear fly the inscrutable sea - raven . and every morning , perch on our stay , row of these bird be see ; and spite of our hooting , for a long time obstinately clung to the hemp , as though they deem our ship some drift , uninhabited craft ; a thing appoint to desolation , and therefore fit roosting - place for their homeless self . and heave and heave , still unrestingly heave the black sea , as if its vast tide be a conscience ; and the great mundane soul be in anguish and remorse for the long sin and suffering it have breed .
cape of good hope , do they call ye ? rather cape tormentoto , as call of yore ; for long allure by the perfidious silence that before have attend we , we find ourselves launch into this tormented sea , where guilty being transform into those fowl and these fish , seemed condemn to swim on everlastingly without any haven in store , or beat that black air without any horizon . but calm , snow - white , and unvarying ; still direct its fountain of feather to the sky ; still beckon we on from before , the solitary jet would at time be descry .
during all this blackness of the element , ahab , though assume for the time the almost continual command of the drenched and dangerous deck , manifest the gloomiest reserve ; and more seldom than ever address his mate . in tempestuous time like these , after everything above and aloft have be secure , nothing more can be do but passively to await the issue of the gale . then captain and crew become practical fatalist . so , with his ivory leg insert into its accustomed hole , and with one hand firmly grasp a shroud , ahab for hour and hour would stand gaze dead to windward , while an occasional squall of sleet or snow would all but congeal his very eyelash together . meantime , the crew drive from the forward part of the ship by the perilous sea that burstingly break over its bow , stand in a line along the bulwark in the waist ; and the well to guard against the leap wave , each man have slip himself into a sort of bowline secure to the rail , in which he swing as in a loosened belt . few or no word be speak ; and the silent ship , as if man by paint sailor in wax , day after day tear on through all the swift madness and gladness of the demoniac wave . by night the same muteness of humanity before the shriek of the ocean prevail ; still in silence the man swing in the bowline ; still wordless ahab stand up to the blast . even when weary nature seem demand repose he would not seek that repose in his hammock . never could starbuck forget the old man 's aspect , when one night go down into the cabin to mark how the barometer stand , he see he with closed eye sit straight in his floor - screw chair ; the rain and half - melt sleet of the storm from which he have some time before emerge , still slowly dripping from the unremoved hat and coat . on the table beside he lie unroll one of those chart of tide and current which have previously be speak of . his lantern swing from his tightly clench hand . though the body be erect , the head be throw back so that the closed eye be point towards the needle of the tell - tale that swing from a beam in the ceiling . *
* the cabin - compass be call the tell - tale , because without go to the compass at the helm , the captain , while below , can inform himself of the course of the ship .
terrible old man ! think starbuck with a shudder , sleep in this gale , still thou steadfastly ey thy purpose .
chapter 52
the albatross .
south - eastward from the cape , off the distant crozetts , a good cruise ground for right whalemen , a sail loom ahead , the goney ( albatross ) by name . as she slowly draw nigh , from my lofty perch at the fore - mast - head , i have a good view of that sight so remarkable to a tyro in the far ocean fishery -- a whaler at sea , and long absent from home .
as if the wave have be fuller , this craft be bleach like the skeleton of a strand walrus . all down her side , this spectral appearance be trace with long channel of reddened rust , while all her spar and her rigging be like the thick branch of tree fur over with hoar - frost . only her low sail be set . a wild sight it be to see her long - bearded look - out at those three mast - head . they seem clothe in the skin of beast , so tear and bepatche the raiment that have survive nearly four year of cruise . stand in iron hoop nail to the mast , they sway and swing over a fathomless sea ; and though , when the ship slowly glide close under our stern , we six man in the air come so nigh to each other that we might almost have leap from the mast - head of one ship to those of the other ; yet , those forlorn - look fisherman , mildly eye we as they pass , say not one word to our own look - out , while the quarter - deck hail be be hear from below .
" ship ahoy ! have ye see the white whale ? "
but as the strange captain , lean over the pallid bulwark , be in the act of put his trumpet to his mouth , it somehow fall from his hand into the sea ; and the wind now rise amain , he in vain strove to make himself hear without it . meantime his ship be still increase the distance between . while in various silent way the seaman of the pequod be evince their observance of this ominous incident at the first mere mention of the white whale 's name to another ship , ahab for a moment pause ; it almost seem as though he would have lower a boat to board the stranger , have not the threaten wind forbid . but take advantage of his windward position , he again seize his trumpet , and know by her aspect that the stranger vessel be a nantucketer and shortly bind home , he loudly hailed--"ahoy there ! this be the pequod , bind round the world ! tell they to address all future letter to the pacific ocean ! and this time three year , if i be not at home , tell they to address they to-- "
at that moment the two wake be fairly cross , and instantly , then , in accordance with their singular way , shoal of small harmless fish , that for some day before have be placidly swim by our side , dart away with what seem shudder fin , and range themselves fore and aft with the stranger 's flank . though in the course of his continual voyaging ahab must often before have notice a similar sight , yet , to any monomaniac man , the veri trifle capriciously carry meaning .
" swim away from i , do ye ? " murmur ahab , gaze over into the water . there seem but little in the word , but the tone convey more of deep helpless sadness than the insane old man have ever before evince . but turn to the steersman , who thus far have be hold the ship in the wind to diminish her headway , he cry out in his old lion voice,--"up helm ! keep she off round the world ! "
round the world ! there be much in that sound to inspire proud feeling ; but whereto do all that circumnavigation conduct ? only through numberless peril to the very point whence we start , where those that we leave behind secure , be all the time before we .
be this world an endless plain , and by sail eastward we could for ever reach new distance , and discover sight more sweet and strange than any cyclade or islands of king solomon , then there be promise in the voyage . but in pursuit of those far mystery we dream of , or in torment chase of that demon phantom that , some time or other , swim before all human heart ; while chase such over this round globe , they either lead we on in barren maze or midway leave we whelm .
chapter 53
the gam .
the ostensible reason why ahab do not go on board of the whaler we have speak be this : the wind and sea betoken storm . but even have this not be the case , he would not after all , perhaps , have board she -- judge by his subsequent conduct on similar occasion -- if so it have be that , by the process of hailing , he have obtain a negative answer to the question he put . for , as it eventually turn out , he care not to consort , even for five minute , with any stranger captain , except he could contribute some of that information he so absorbingly seek . but all this might remain inadequately estimate , be not something say here of the peculiar usage of whaling - vessel when meet each other in foreign sea , and especially on a common cruising - ground .
if two stranger cross the pine barrens in new york state , or the equally desolate salisbury plain in england ; if casually encounter each other in such inhospitable wild , these twain , for the life of they , can not well avoid a mutual salutation ; and stop for a moment to interchange the news ; and , perhaps , sit down for a while and rest in concert : then , how much more natural that upon the illimitable pine barrens and salisbury plains of the sea , two whale vessel descry each other at the end of the earth -- off lone fanning 's island , or the far away king 's mill ; how much more natural , i say , that under such circumstance these ship should not only interchange hail , but come into still close , more friendly and sociable contact . and especially would this seem to be a matter of course , in the case of vessel own in one seaport , and whose captain , officer , and not a few of the man be personally know to each other ; and consequently , have all sort of dear domestic thing to talk about .
for the long absent ship , the outward - bounder , perhaps , have letter on board ; at any rate , she will be sure to let she have some paper of a date a year or two later than the last one on her blurred and thumb - wear file . and in return for that courtesy , the outward - bind ship would receive the late whaling intelligence from the cruising - ground to which she may be destine , a thing of the utmost importance to she . and in degree , all this will hold true concern whale vessel cross each other 's track on the cruising - ground itself , even though they be equally long absent from home . for one of they may have receive a transfer of letter from some third , and now far remote vessel ; and some of those letter may be for the people of the ship she now meet . besides , they would exchange the whale news , and have an agreeable chat . for not only would they meet with all the sympathy of sailor , but likewise with all the peculiar congeniality arise from a common pursuit and mutually share privation and peril .
nor would difference of country make any very essential difference ; that be , so long as both party speak one language , as be the case with americans and english . though , to be sure , from the small number of english whaler , such meeting do not very often occur , and when they do occur there be too apt to be a sort of shyness between they ; for your englishman be rather reserved , and your yankee , he do not fancy that sort of thing in anybody but himself . besides , the english whaler sometimes affect a kind of metropolitan superiority over the american whaler ; regard the long , lean nantucketer , with his nondescript provincialism , as a sort of sea - peasant . but where this superiority in the english whaleman do really consist , it would be hard to say , see that the yankees in one day , collectively , kill more whale than all the english , collectively , in ten year . but this be a harmless little foible in the english whale - hunter , which the nantucketer do not take much to heart ; probably , because he know that he have a few foible himself .
so , then , we see that of all ship separately sail the sea , the whaler have most reason to be sociable -- and they be so . whereas , some merchant ship cross each other 's wake in the mid - atlantic , will oftentime pass on without so much as a single word of recognition , mutually cut each other on the high sea , like a brace of dandy in broadway ; and all the time indulge , perhaps , in finical criticism upon each other 's rig . as for man - of - war , when they chance to meet at sea , they first go through such a string of silly bowing and scraping , such a ducking of ensign , that there do not seem to be much right - down hearty good - will and brotherly love about it at all . as touch slave - ship meeting , why , they be in such a prodigious hurry , they run away from each other as soon as possible . and as for pirates , when they chance to cross each other 's cross - bone , the first hail is--"how many skulls?"--the same way that whaler hail--"how many barrel ? " and that question once answer , pirate straightway steer apart , for they be infernal villain on both side , and do not like to see overmuch of each other 's villanous likeness .
but look at the godly , honest , unostentatious , hospitable , sociable , free - and - easy whaler ! what do the whaler do when she meet another whaler in any sort of decent weather ? she have a " gam , " a thing so utterly unknown to all other ship that they never hear of the name even ; and if by chance they should hear of it , they only grin at it , and repeat gamesome stuff about " spouter " and " blubber - boiler , " and such like pretty exclamation . why it be that all merchant - seamen , and also all pirates and man - of - war 's man , and slave - ship sailor , cherish such a scornful feeling towards whale - ship ; this be a question it would be hard to answer . because , in the case of pirate , say , i should like to know whether that profession of theirs have any peculiar glory about it . it sometimes end in uncommon elevation , indeed ; but only at the gallow . and besides , when a man be elevate in that odd fashion , he have no proper foundation for his superior altitude . hence , i conclude , that in boast himself to be high lift above a whaleman , in that assertion the pirate have no solid basis to stand on .
but what be a gam ? you might wear out your index - finger run up and down the column of dictionary , and never find the word . dr. johnson never attain to that erudition ; noah webster 's ark do not hold it . nevertheless , this same expressive word have now for many year be in constant use among some fifteen thousand true bear yankees . certainly , it need a definition , and should be incorporate into the lexicon . with that view , let i learnedly define it .
gam . noun -- a social meeting of two ( or more ) whaleship , generally on a cruising - ground ; when , after exchange hails , they exchange visit by boats ' crews ; the two captain remain , for the time , on board of one ship , and the two chief mate on the other .
there be another little item about gamming which must not be forget here . all profession have their own little peculiarity of detail ; so have the whale fishery . in a pirate , man - of - war , or slave ship , when the captain be row anywhere in his boat , he always sit in the stern sheet on a comfortable , sometimes cushion seat there , and often steer himself with a pretty little milliner 's tiller decorate with gay cord and ribbon . but the whale - boat have no seat astern , no sofa of that sort whatever , and no tiller at all . high time indeed , if whale captain be wheel about the water on castor like gouty old aldermen in patent chair . and as for a tiller , the whale - boat never admit of any such effeminacy ; and therefore as in gam a complete boat 's crew must leave the ship , and hence as the boat steerer or harpooneer be of the number , that subordinate be the steersman upon the occasion , and the captain , have no place to sit in , be pull off to his visit all stand like a pine tree . and often you will notice that be conscious of the eye of the whole visible world rest on he from the side of the two ship , this stand captain be all alive to the importance of sustain his dignity by maintain his leg . nor be this any very easy matter ; for in his rear be the immense project steering oar hit he now and then in the small of his back , the after - oar reciprocating by rap his knee in front . he be thus completely wedge before and behind , and can only expand himself sideways by settle down on his stretched leg ; but a sudden , violent pitch of the boat will often go far to topple he , because length of foundation be nothing without correspond breadth . merely make a spread angle of two pole , and you can not stand they up . then , again , it would never do in plain sight of the world 's riveted eye , it would never do , i say , for this straddling captain to be see steady himself the slight particle by catch hold of anything with his hand ; indeed , as token of his entire , buoyant self - command , he generally carry his hand in his trowser ' pocket ; but perhaps be generally very large , heavy hand , he carry they there for ballast . nevertheless there have occur instance , well authenticate one too , where the captain have be know for an uncommonly critical moment or two , in a sudden squall say -- to seize hold of the near oarsman 's hair , and hold on there like grim death .
chapter 54
the town - ho 's story .
( as told at the golden inn )
the cape of good hope , and all the watery region round about there , be much like some note four corner of a great highway , where you meet more traveller than in any other part .
it be not very long after speak the goney that another homeward - bind whaleman , the town - ho , * be encounter . she be man almost wholly by polynesians . in the short gam that ensue she give we strong news of moby dick . to some the general interest in the white whale be now wildly heighten by a circumstance of the town - ho 's story , which seem obscurely to involve with the whale a certain wondrous , invert visitation of one of those so call judgment of god which at time be say to overtake some man . this latter circumstance , with its own particular accompaniment , form what may be call the secret part of the tragedy about to be narrate , never reach the ear of captain ahab or his mate . for that secret part of the story be unknown to the captain of the town - ho himself . it be the private property of three confederate white seaman of that ship , one of whom , it seem , communicate it to tashtego with romish injunction of secrecy , but the follow night tashtego ramble in his sleep , and reveal so much of it in that way , that when he be waken he could not well withhold the rest . nevertheless , so potent an influence do this thing have on those seaman in the pequod who come to the full knowledge of it , and by such a strange delicacy , to call it so , be they govern in this matter , that they keep the secret among themselves so that it never transpire abaft the pequod 's main - mast . interweave in its proper place this dark thread with the story as publicly narrate on the ship , the whole of this strange affair i now proceed to put on lasting record .
* the ancient whale - cry upon first sight a whale from the mast - head , still use by whaleman in hunt the famous gallipagos terrapin .
for my humor 's sake , i shall preserve the style in which i once narrate it at lima , to a lounging circle of my spanish friend , one saint 's eve , smoke upon the thick - gilt tile piazza of the golden inn . of those fine cavalier , the young don , pedro and sebastian , be on the close term with i ; and hence the interluding question they occasionally put , and which be duly answer at the time .
" some two year prior to my first learn the event which i be about rehearse to you , gentleman , the town - ho , sperm whaler of nantucket , be cruise in your pacific here , not very many day ' sail eastward from the eave of this good golden inn . she be somewhere to the northward of the line . one morning upon handle the pump , accord to daily usage , it be observe that she make more water in her hold than common . they suppose a sword - fish have stab she , gentleman . but the captain , have some unusual reason for believe that rare good luck await he in those latitude ; and therefore be very averse to quit they , and the leak not be then consider at all dangerous , though , indeed , they could not find it after search the hold as low down as be possible in rather heavy weather , the ship still continue her cruising , the mariner work at the pump at wide and easy interval ; but no good luck come ; more day go by , and not only be the leak yet undiscovered , but it sensibly increase . so much so , that now take some alarm , the captain , make all sail , stand away for the near harbor among the island , there to have his hull hove out and repair .
" though no small passage be before she , yet , if the common chance favour , he do not at all fear that his ship would founder by the way , because his pump be of the good , and be periodically relieve at they , those six - and - thirty man of his could easily keep the ship free ; never mind if the leak should double on she . in truth , well nigh the whole of this passage be attend by very prosperous breeze , the town - ho have all but certainly arrive in perfect safety at her port without the occurrence of the least fatality , have it not be for the brutal overbearing of radney , the mate , a vineyarder , and the bitterly provoke vengeance of steelkilt , a lakeman and desperado from buffalo .
" ' lakeman!--buffalo ! pray , what be a lakeman , and where be buffalo ? ' say don sebastian , rise in his swing mat of grass .
" on the eastern shore of our lake erie , don ; but -- i crave your courtesy -- may be , you shall soon hear far of all that . now , gentleman , in square - sail brig and three - masted ship , well - nigh as large and stout as any that ever sail out of your old callao to far manilla ; this lakeman , in the land - lock heart of our america , have yet be nurture by all those agrarian freeboote impression popularly connect with the open ocean . for in their interflowe aggregate , those grand fresh - water sea of ours,--erie , and ontario , and huron , and superior , and michigan,--possess an ocean - like expansiveness , with many of the ocean 's noble trait ; with many of its rimmed variety of race and of clime . they contain round archipelago of romantic isle , even as the polynesian water do ; in large part , be shore by two great contrast nation , as the atlantic be ; they furnish long maritime approach to our numerous territorial colony from the east , dot all round their bank ; here and there be frown upon by battery , and by the goat - like craggy gun of lofty mackinaw ; they have hear the fleet thundering of naval victory ; at interval , they yield their beach to wild barbarian , whose red paint face flash from out their peltry wigwam ; for league and league be flank by ancient and unentered forest , where the gaunt pine stand like serrie line of king in gothic genealogy ; those same wood harbor wild afric beast of prey , and silken creature whose export fur give robe to tartar emperors ; they mirror the paved capital of buffalo and cleveland , as well as winnebago village ; they float alike the full - rig merchant ship , the armed cruiser of the state , the steamer , and the beech canoe ; they be sweep by borean and dismasting blast as direful as any that lash the salt wave ; they know what shipwreck be , for out of sight of land , however inland , they have drown full many a midnight ship with all its shriek crew . thus , gentleman , though an inlander , steelkilt be wild - ocean bear , and wild - ocean nurture ; as much of an audacious mariner as any . and for radney , though in his infancy he may have lay he down on the lone nantucket beach , to nurse at his maternal sea ; though in after life he have long follow our austere atlantic and your contemplative pacific ; yet be he quite as vengeful and full of social quarrel as the backwood seaman , fresh from the latitude of buck - horn handle bowie - knife . yet be this nantucketer a man with some good - hearted trait ; and this lakeman , a mariner , who though a sort of devil indeed , might yet by inflexible firmness , only temper by that common decency of human recognition which be the mean slave 's right ; thus treat , this steelkilt have long be retain harmless and docile . at all event , he have prove so thus far ; but radney be doom and make mad , and steelkilt -- but , gentleman , you shall hear .
" it be not more than a day or two at the furth after point her prow for her island haven , that the town - ho 's leak seem again increase , but only so as to require an hour or more at the pump every day . you must know that in a settled and civilized ocean like our atlantic , for example , some skipper think little of pump their whole way across it ; though of a still , sleepy night , should the officer of the deck happen to forget his duty in that respect , the probability would be that he and his shipmate would never again remember it , on account of all hand gently subside to the bottom . nor in the solitary and savage sea far from you to the westward , gentleman , be it altogether unusual for ship to keep clang at their pump - handle in full chorus even for a voyage of considerable length ; that be , if it lie along a tolerably accessible coast , or if any other reasonable retreat be afford they . it be only when a leaky vessel be in some very out of the way part of those water , some really landless latitude , that her captain begin to feel a little anxious .
" much this way have it be with the town - ho ; so when her leak be find gain once more , there be in truth some small concern manifest by several of her company ; especially by radney the mate . he command the upper sail to be well hoist , sheet home anew , and every way expand to the breeze . now this radney , i suppose , be as little of a coward , and as little inclined to any sort of nervous apprehensiveness touch his own person as any fearless , unthinke creature on land or on sea that you can conveniently imagine , gentleman . therefore when he betray this solicitude about the safety of the ship , some of the seaman declare that it be only on account of his be a part owner in she . so when they be work that evening at the pump , there be on this head no small gamesomeness slily go on among they , as they stand with their foot continually overflow by the ripple clear water ; clear as any mountain spring , gentleman -- that bubble from the pump run across the deck , and pour itself out in steady spout at the lee scupper - hole .
" now , as you well know , it be not seldom the case in this conventional world of our -- watery or otherwise ; that when a person place in command over his fellow - man find one of they to be very significantly his superior in general pride of manhood , straightway against that man he conceive an unconquerable dislike and bitterness ; and if he have a chance he will pull down and pulverize that subaltern 's tower , and make a little heap of dust of it . be this conceit of mine as it may , gentleman , at all event steelkilt be a tall and noble animal with a head like a roman , and a flow golden beard like the tassele housing of your last viceroy 's snort charger ; and a brain , and a heart , and a soul in he , gentleman , which have make steelkilt charlemagne , have he be bear son to charlemagne 's father . but radney , the mate , be ugly as a mule ; yet as hardy , as stubborn , as malicious . he do not love steelkilt , and steelkilt know it .
" espy the mate draw near as he be toil at the pump with the rest , the lakeman affect not to notice he , but unawed , go on with his gay bantering .
" ' aye , aye , my merry lad , it be a lively leak this ; hold a cannikin , one of ye , and let us have a taste . by the lord , it be worth bottle ! i tell ye what , man , old rad 's investment must go for it ! he have well cut away his part of the hull and tow it home . the fact be , boy , that sword - fish only begin the job ; he be come back again with a gang of ship - carpenter , saw - fish , and file - fish , and what not ; and the whole posse of them be now hard at work cut and slash at the bottom ; make improvement , i suppose . if old rad be here now , i would tell he to jump overboard and scatter them . they be play the devil with his estate , i can tell he . but he be a simple old soul,--rad , and a beauty too . boy , they say the rest of his property be invest in look - glass . i wonder if he would give a poor devil like i the model of his nose . '
" ' damn your eye ! what be that pump stop for ? ' roar radney , pretend not to have hear the sailor ' talk . ' thunder away at it ! '
' aye , aye , sir , ' say steelkilt , merry as a cricket . ' lively , boy , lively , now ! ' and with that the pump clang like fifty fire - engine ; the man toss their hat off to it , and ere long that peculiar gasp of the lung be hear which denote the full tension of life 's utmost energy .
" quit the pump at last , with the rest of his band , the lakeman go forward all pant , and sit himself down on the windlass ; his face fiery red , his eye bloodshot , and wipe the profuse sweat from his brow . now what cozening fiend it be , gentleman , that possess radney to meddle with such a man in that corporeally exasperate state , i know not ; but so it happen . intolerably stride along the deck , the mate command he to get a broom and sweep down the plank , and also a shovel , and remove some offensive matter consequent upon allow a pig to run at large .
" now , gentleman , sweep a ship 's deck at sea be a piece of household work which in all time but rag gale be regularly attend to every evening ; it have be know to be do in the case of ship actually founder at the time . such , gentleman , be the inflexibility of sea - usage and the instinctive love of neatness in seaman ; some of whom would not willingly drown without first wash their face . but in all vessel this broom business be the prescriptive province of the boy , if boy there be aboard . besides , it be the strong man in the town - ho that have be divide into gang , take turn at the pump ; and be the most athletic seaman of they all , steelkilt have be regularly assign captain of one of the gang ; consequently he should have be free from any trivial business not connect with truly nautical duty , such be the case with his comrade . i mention all these particular so that you may understand exactly how this affair stand between the two man .
" but there be more than this : the order about the shovel be almost as plainly mean to sting and insult steelkilt , as though radney have spat in his face . any man who have go sailor in a whale - ship will understand this ; and all this and doubtless much more , the lakeman fully comprehend when the mate utter his command . but as he sit still for a moment , and as he steadfastly look into the mate 's malignant eye and perceive the stack of powder - cask heap up in he and the slow - match silently burn along towards they ; as he instinctively see all this , that strange forbearance and unwillingness to stir up the deep passionateness in any already ireful being -- a repugnance most feel , when feel at all , by really valiant man even when aggrieve -- this nameless phantom feeling , gentleman , steal over steelkilt .
" therefore , in his ordinary tone , only a little break by the bodily exhaustion he be temporarily in , he answer he say that sweep the deck be not his business , and he would not do it . and then , without at all allude to the shovel , he point to three lad as the customary sweeper ; who , not be billet at the pump , have do little or nothing all day . to this , radney reply with an oath , in a most domineering and outrageous manner unconditionally reiterate his command ; meanwhile advance upon the still seat lakeman , with an uplifted cooper 's club hammer which he have snatch from a cask near by .
" heated and irritated as he be by his spasmodic toil at the pump , for all his first nameless feeling of forbearance the sweating steelkilt could but ill brook this bearing in the mate ; but somehow still smother the conflagration within he , without speak he remain doggedly root to his seat , till at last the incense radney shake the hammer within a few inch of his face , furiously command he to do his bidding .
" steelkilt rose , and slowly retreat round the windlass , steadily follow by the mate with his menacing hammer , deliberately repeat his intention not to obey . see , however , that his forbearance have not the slight effect , by an awful and unspeakable intimation with his twisted hand he warn off the foolish and infatuated man ; but it be to no purpose . and in this way the two go once slowly round the windlass ; when , resolve at last no long to retreat , bethink he that he have now forbear as much as comport with his humor , the lakeman pause on the hatch and thus speak to the officer :
" ' mr. radney , i will not obey you . take that hammer away , or look to yourself . ' but the predestinate mate come still close to he , where the lakeman stand fix , now shake the heavy hammer within an inch of his tooth ; meanwhile repeat a string of insufferable malediction . retreat not the thousandth part of an inch ; stab he in the eye with the unflinche poniard of his glance , steelkilt , clench his right hand behind he and creepingly draw it back , tell his persecutor that if the hammer but graze his cheek he ( steelkilt ) would murder he . but , gentleman , the fool have be brand for the slaughter by the god . immediately the hammer touch the cheek ; the next instant the low jaw of the mate be stove in his head ; he fall on the hatch spout blood like a whale .
" ere the cry could go aft steelkilt be shake one of the backstay lead far aloft to where two of his comrade be stand their masthead . they be both canallers .
" ' canaller ! ' cry don pedro . ' we have see many whale - ship in our harbour , but never hear of your canallers . pardon : who and what be they ? '
" ' canallers , don , be the boatman belong to our grand erie canal . you must have hear of it . '
" ' nay , senor ; hereabout in this dull , warm , most lazy , and hereditary land , we know but little of your vigorous north . '
" ' aye ? well then , don , refill my cup . your chicha 's very fine ; and ere proceed far i will tell ye what our canaller be ; for such information may throw side - light upon my story . '
" for three hundred and sixty mile , gentleman , through the entire breadth of the state of new york ; through numerous populous city and most thriving village ; through long , dismal , uninhabited swamp , and affluent , cultivate field , unrivalle for fertility ; by billiard - room and bar - room ; through the holy - of - holy of great forest ; on roman arch over indian river ; through sun and shade ; by happy heart or break ; through all the wide contrast scenery of those noble mohawk county ; and especially , by row of snow - white chapel , whose spire stand almost like milestone , flow one continual stream of venetianly corrupt and often lawless life . there be your true ashantee , gentleman ; there howl your pagan ; where you ever find they , next door to you ; under the long - flung shadow , and the snug patronise lee of church . for by some curious fatality , as it be often note of your metropolitan freebooter that they ever encamp around the hall of justice , so sinner , gentleman , most abound in holy vicinity .
" ' be that a friar passing ? ' say don pedro , look downward into the crowded plazza , with humorous concern .
" ' well for our northern friend , dame isabella 's inquisition wane in lima , ' laugh don sebastian . ' proceed , senor . '
" ' a moment ! pardon ! ' cry another of the company . ' in the name of all us limeese , i but desire to express to you , sir sailor , that we have by no mean overlook your delicacy in not substitute present lima for distant venice in your corrupt comparison . oh ! do not bow and look surprised ; you know the proverb all along this coast--"corrupt as lima . " it but bear out your saying , too ; church more plentiful than billiard - table , and for ever open -- and " corrupt as lima . " so , too , venice ; i have be there ; the holy city of the blessed evangelist , st. mark!--st . dominic , purge it ! your cup ! thank : here i refill ; now , you pour out again . '
" freely depict in his own vocation , gentleman , the canaller would make a fine dramatic hero , so abundantly and picturesquely wicked be he . like mark antony , for day and day along his green - turfed , flowery nile , he indolently float , openly toy with his red - cheeked cleopatra , ripen his apricot thigh upon the sunny deck . but ashore , all this effeminacy be dash . the brigandish guise which the canaller so proudly sport ; his slouch and gaily - ribbone hat betoken his grand feature . a terror to the smile innocence of the village through which he float ; his swart visage and bold swagger be not unshunned in city . once a vagabond on his own canal , i have receive good turn from one of these canallers ; i thank he heartily ; would fain be not ungrateful ; but it be often one of the prime redeem quality of your man of violence , that at time he have as stiff an arm to back a poor stranger in a strait , as to plunder a wealthy one . in sum , gentleman , what the wildness of this canal life be , be emphatically evince by this ; that our wild whale - fishery contain so many of its most finished graduate , and that scarce any race of mankind , except sydney man , be so much distrust by our whale captain . nor do it at all diminish the curiousness of this matter , that to many thousand of our rural boy and young man bear along its line , the probationary life of the grand canal furnish the sole transition between quietly reap in a christian corn - field , and recklessly plough the water of the most barbaric sea .
" ' i see ! i see ! ' impetuously exclaim don pedro , spill his chicha upon his silvery ruffle . ' no need to travel ! the world 's one lima . i have think , now , that at your temperate north the generation be cold and holy as the hills.--but the story . '
" i leave off , gentleman , where the lakeman shake the backstay . hardly have he do so , when he be surround by the three junior mate and the four harpooneer , who all crowd he to the deck . but slide down the rope like baleful comet , the two canallers rush into the uproar , and seek to drag their man out of it towards the forecastle . other of the sailor join with they in this attempt , and a twisted turmoil ensue ; while stand out of harm 's way , the valiant captain dance up and down with a whale - pike , call upon his officer to manhandle that atrocious scoundrel , and smoke he along to the quarter - deck . at interval , he run close up to the revolve border of the confusion , and pry into the heart of it with his pike , seek to prick out the object of his resentment . but steelkilt and his desperado be too much for they all ; they succeed in gain the forecastle deck , where , hastily slew about three or four large cask in a line with the windlass , these sea - parisians entrench themselves behind the barricade .
" ' come out of that , ye pirate ! ' roar the captain , now menace they with a pistol in each hand , just bring to he by the steward . ' come out of that , ye cut - throat ! '
" steelkilt leap on the barricade , and stride up and down there , defy the bad the pistol could do ; but give the captain to understand distinctly , that his ( steelkilt 's ) death would be the signal for a murderous mutiny on the part of all hand . fear in his heart lest this might prove but too true , the captain a little desist , but still command the insurgent instantly to return to their duty .
" ' will you promise not to touch we , if we do ? ' demand their ringleader .
" ' turn to ! turn to!--i make no promise;--to your duty ! do you want to sink the ship , by knock off at a time like this ? turn to ! ' and he once more raise a pistol .
" ' sink the ship ? ' cry steelkilt . ' aye , let she sink . not a man of we turn to , unless you swear not to raise a rope - yarn against we . what say ye , man ? ' turn to his comrade . a fierce cheer be their response .
" the lakeman now patrol the barricade , all the while keep his eye on the captain , and jerk out such sentence as these:--'it be not our fault ; we do not want it ; i tell he to take his hammer away ; it be boy 's business ; he might have know i before this ; i tell he not to prick the buffalo ; i believe i have break a finger here against his cursed jaw ; be not those mince knife down in the forecastle there , man ? look to those handspike , my heartie . captain , by god , look to yourself ; say the word ; do not be a fool ; forget it all ; we be ready to turn to ; treat we decently , and we be your man ; but we will not be flog . '
" ' turn to ! i make no promise , turn to , i say ! '
" ' look ye , now , ' cry the lakeman , fling out his arm towards he , ' there be a few of we here ( and i be one of they ) who have ship for the cruise , d'ye see ; now as you well know , sir , we can claim our discharge as soon as the anchor be down ; so we do not want a row ; it be not our interest ; we want to be peaceable ; we be ready to work , but we will not be flog . '
" ' turn to ! ' roar the captain .
" steelkilt glanced round he a moment , and then said:--'i tell you what it be now , captain , rather than kill ye , and be hang for such a shabby rascal , we will not lift a hand against ye unless ye attack we ; but till you say the word about not flog we , we do not do a hand 's turn . '
" ' down into the forecastle then , down with ye , i will keep ye there till ye're sick of it . down ye go . '
" ' shall we ? ' cry the ringleader to his man . most of they be against it ; but at length , in obedience to steelkilt , they precede he down into their dark den , growlingly disappear , like bear into a cave .
" as the lakeman 's bare head be just level with the plank , the captain and his posse leap the barricade , and rapidly draw over the slide of the scuttle , plant their group of hand upon it , and loudly call for the steward to bring the heavy brass padlock belong to the companionway .
then open the slide a little , the captain whisper something down the crack , close it , and turn the key upon they -- ten in number -- leave on deck some twenty or more , who thus far have remain neutral .
" all night a wide - awake watch be keep by all the officer , forward and aft , especially about the forecastle scuttle and fore hatchway ; at which last place it be fear the insurgent might emerge , after break through the bulkhead below . but the hour of darkness pass in peace ; the man who still remain at their duty toil hard at the pump , whose clink and clank at interval through the dreary night dismally resound through the ship .
" at sunrise the captain go forward , and knock on the deck , summon the prisoner to work ; but with a yell they refuse . water be then lower down to they , and a couple of handfuls of biscuit be toss after it ; when again turn the key upon they and pocket it , the captain return to the quarter - deck . twice every day for three day this be repeat ; but on the fourth morning a confused wrangling , and then a scuffling be hear , as the customary summon be deliver ; and suddenly four man burst up from the forecastle , say they be ready to turn to . the fetid closeness of the air , and a famish diet , unite perhaps to some fear of ultimate retribution , have constrain they to surrender at discretion . embolden by this , the captain reiterate his demand to the rest , but steelkilt shout up to he a terrific hint to stop his babbling and betake himself where he belong . on the fifth morning three other of the mutineer bolt up into the air from the desperate arm below that seek to restrain they . only three be leave .
" ' well turn to , now ? ' say the captain with a heartless jeer .
" ' shut we up again , will ye ! ' cry steelkilt .
" ' oh certainly , ' the captain , and the key clicked .
" it be at this point , gentleman , that enrage by the defection of seven of his former associate , and sting by the mocking voice that have last hail he , and madden by his long entombment in a place as black as the bowel of despair ; it be then that steelkilt propose to the two canallers , thus far apparently of one mind with he , to burst out of their hole at the next summoning of the garrison ; and arm with their keen mincing knife ( long , crescentic , heavy implement with a handle at each end ) run amuck from the bowsprit to the taffrail ; and if by any devilishness of desperation possible , seize the ship . for himself , he would do this , he say , whether they join he or not . that be the last night he should spend in that den . but the scheme meet with no opposition on the part of the other two ; they swear they be ready for that , or for any other mad thing , for anything in short but a surrender . and what be more , they each insist upon be the first man on deck , when the time to make the rush should come . but to this their leader as fiercely object , reserve that priority for himself ; particularly as his two comrade would not yield , the one to the other , in the matter ; and both of they could not be first , for the ladder would but admit one man at a time . and here , gentleman , the foul play of these miscreant must come out .
" upon hear the frantic project of their leader , each in his own separate soul have suddenly light , it would seem , upon the same piece of treachery , namely : to be foremost in break out , in order to be the first of the three , though the last of the ten , to surrender ; and thereby secure whatever small chance of pardon such conduct might merit . but when steelkilt make known his determination still to lead they to the last , they in some way , by some subtle chemistry of villany , mix their before secret treachery together ; and when their leader fall into a doze , verbally open their soul to each other in three sentence ; and bind the sleeper with cord , and gag he with cord ; and shriek out for the captain at midnight .
" think murder at hand , and smell in the dark for the blood , he and all his armed mate and harpooneer rush for the forecastle . in a few minute the scuttle be open , and , bind hand and foot , the still struggle ringleader be shove up into the air by his perfidious ally , who at once claim the honour of secure a man who have be fully ripe for murder . but all these be collar , and drag along the deck like dead cattle ; and , side by side , be seize up into the mizzen rigging , like three quarter of meat , and there they hang till morning . ' damn ye , ' cry the captain , pace to and fro before they , ' the vulture would not touch ye , ye villain ! '
" at sunrise he summon all hand ; and separate those who have rebel from those who have take no part in the mutiny , he tell the former that he have a good mind to flog they all round -- thought , upon the whole , he would do so -- he ought to -- justice demand it ; but for the present , consider their timely surrender , he would let they go with a reprimand , which he accordingly administer in the vernacular .
" ' but as for you , ye carrion rogue , ' turn to the three man in the rigging--'for you , i mean to mince ye up for the try - pot ; ' and , seize a rope , he apply it with all his might to the back of the two traitor , till they yell no more , but lifelessly hang their head sideways , as the two crucified thief be draw .
" ' my wrist be sprain with ye ! ' he cry , at last ; ' but there be still rope enough leave for you , my fine bantam , that would not give up . take that gag from his mouth , and let we hear what he can say for himself . '
" for a moment the exhausted mutineer make a tremulous motion of his cramped jaw , and then painfully twist round his head , say in a sort of hiss , ' what i say be this -- and mind it well -- if you flog i , i murder you ! '
" ' say ye so ? then see how ye frighten me'--and the captain draw off with the rope to strike .
" ' well not , ' hiss the lakeman .
" ' but i must,'--and the rope be once more draw back for the stroke .
" steelkilt here hiss out something , inaudible to all but the captain ; who , to the amazement of all hand , start back , pace the deck rapidly two or three time , and then suddenly throw down his rope , say , ' i will not do it -- let he go -- cut he down : d'ye hear ? '
but as the junior mate be hurry to execute the order , a pale man , with a bandaged head , arrest they -- radney the chief mate . ever since the blow , he have lain in his berth ; but that morning , hear the tumult on the deck , he have creep out , and thus far have watch the whole scene . such be the state of his mouth , that he could hardly speak ; but mumble something about his be willing and able to do what the captain dare not attempt , he snatch the rope and advance to his pinion foe .
" ' you be a coward ! ' hiss the lakeman .
" ' so i be , but take that . ' the mate be in the very act of striking , when another hiss stay his uplifted arm . he pause : and then pause no more , make good his word , spite of steelkilt 's threat , whatever that might have be . the three man be then cut down , all hand be turn to , and , sullenly work by the moody seaman , the iron pump clang as before .
" just after dark that day , when one watch have retire below , a clamor be hear in the forecastle ; and the two tremble traitor run up , besiege the cabin door , say they durst not consort with the crew . entreaty , cuff , and kick could not drive they back , so at their own instance they be put down in the ship 's run for salvation . still , no sign of mutiny reappear among the rest . on the contrary , it seem , that mainly at steelkilt 's instigation , they have resolve to maintain the strict peacefulness , obey all order to the last , and , when the ship reach port , desert she in a body . but in order to insure the speedy end to the voyage , they all agree to another thing -- namely , not to sing out for whale , in case any should be discover . for , spite of her leak , and spite of all her other peril , the town - ho still maintain her mast - head , and her captain be just as willing to lower for a fish that moment , as on the day his craft first strike the cruise ground ; and radney the mate be quite as ready to change his berth for a boat , and with his bandaged mouth seek to gag in death the vital jaw of the whale .
" but though the lakeman have induce the seaman to adopt this sort of passiveness in their conduct , he keep his own counsel ( at least till all be over ) concern his own proper and private revenge upon the man who have sting he in the ventricle of his heart . he be in radney the chief mate 's watch ; and as if the infatuated man seek to run more than half way to meet his doom , after the scene at the rigging , he insist , against the express counsel of the captain , upon resume the head of his watch at night . upon this , and one or two other circumstance , steelkilt systematically build the plan of his revenge .
" during the night , radney have an unseamanlike way of sit on the bulwark of the quarter - deck , and lean his arm upon the gunwale of the boat which be hoist up there , a little above the ship 's side . in this attitude , it be well know , he sometimes doze . there be a considerable vacancy between the boat and the ship , and down between this be the sea . steelkilt calculate his time , and find that his next trick at the helm would come round at two o'clock , in the morning of the third day from that in which he have be betray . at his leisure , he employ the interval in braid something very carefully in his watch below .
" ' what be you make there ? ' say a shipmate .
" ' what do you think ? what do it look like ? '
" ' like a lanyard for your bag ; but it be an odd one , seem to i . '
' yes , rather oddish , ' say the lakeman , hold it at arm 's length before he ; ' but i think it will answer . shipmate , i have not enough twine,--have you any ? '
" but there be none in the forecastle .
" ' then i must get some from old rad ; ' and he rise to go aft .
" ' you do not mean to go a begging to him ! ' say a sailor .
" ' why not ? do you think he will not do i a turn , when it be to help himself in the end , shipmate ? ' and go to the mate , he look at he quietly , and ask he for some twine to mend his hammock . it be give he -- neither twine nor lanyard be see again ; but the next night an iron ball , closely net , partly roll from the pocket of the lakeman 's monkey jacket , as he be tuck the coat into his hammock for a pillow . twenty - four hour after , his trick at the silent helm -- nigh to the man who be apt to doze over the grave always ready dig to the seaman 's hand -- that fatal hour be then to come ; and in the fore - ordain soul of steelkilt , the mate be already stark and stretch as a corpse , with his forehead crush in .
" but , gentleman , a fool save the would - be murderer from the bloody deed he have plan . yet complete revenge he have , and without be the avenger . for by a mysterious fatality , heaven itself seem to step in to take out of his hand into its own the damn thing he would have do .
" it be just between daybreak and sunrise of the morning of the second day , when they be wash down the deck , that a stupid teneriffe man , draw water in the main - chain , all at once shout out , ' there she roll ! there she roll ! ' jesu , what a whale ! it be moby dick .
" ' moby dick ! ' cry don sebastian ; ' st. dominic ! sir sailor , but do whale have christening ? whom call you moby dick ? '
" ' a very white , and famous , and most deadly immortal monster , don;--but that would be too long a story . '
" ' how ? how ? ' cry all the young spaniards , crowd .
" ' nay , dons , don -- nay , nay ! i can not rehearse that now . let i get more into the air , sirs . '
" ' the chicha ! the chicha ! ' cry don pedro ; ' our vigorous friend look faint;--fill up his empty glass ! '
" no need , gentleman ; one moment , and i proceed.--now , gentleman , so suddenly perceive the snowy whale within fifty yard of the ship -- forgetful of the compact among the crew -- in the excitement of the moment , the teneriffe man have instinctively and involuntarily lift his voice for the monster , though for some little time past it have be plainly beheld from the three sullen mast - head . all be now a phrensy . ' the white whale -- the white whale ! ' be the cry from captain , mate , and harpooneer , who , undeterre by fearful rumour , be all anxious to capture so famous and precious a fish ; while the dog crew eyed askance , and with curse , the appalling beauty of the vast milky mass , that light up by a horizontal spangling sun , shift and glisten like a live opal in the blue morning sea . gentleman , a strange fatality pervade the whole career of these event , as if verily map out before the world itself be chart . the mutineer be the bowsman of the mate , and when fast to a fish , it be his duty to sit next he , while radney stand up with his lance in the prow , and haul in or slacken the line , at the word of command . moreover , when the four boat be lower , the mate 's get the start ; and none howl more fiercely with delight than do steelkilt , as he strain at his oar . after a stiff pull , their harpooneer get fast , and , spear in hand , radney spring to the bow . he be always a furious man , it seem , in a boat . and now his bandaged cry be , to beach he on the whale 's topmost back . nothing loath , his bowsman haul he up and up , through a blind foam that blent two whiteness together ; till of a sudden the boat strike as against a sunken ledge , and keel over , spill out the standing mate . that instant , as he fall on the whale 's slippery back , the boat right , and be dash aside by the swell , while radney be toss over into the sea , on the other flank of the whale . he strike out through the spray , and , for an instant , be dimly see through that veil , wildly seek to remove himself from the eye of moby dick . but the whale rush round in a sudden maelstrom ; seize the swimmer between his jaw ; and rear high up with he , plunge headlong again , and go down .
" meantime , at the first tap of the boat 's bottom , the lakeman have slacken the line , so as to drop astern from the whirlpool ; calmly look on , he think his own thought . but a sudden , terrific , downward jerking of the boat , quickly bring his knife to the line . he cut it ; and the whale be free . but , at some distance , moby dick rise again , with some tatter of radney 's red woollen shirt , catch in the tooth that have destroy he . all four boat give chase again ; but the whale elude they , and finally wholly disappear .
" in good time , the town - ho reach her port -- a savage , solitary place -- where no civilized creature reside . there , head by the lakeman , all but five or six of the foremastman deliberately desert among the palm ; eventually , as it turn out , seize a large double war - canoe of the savage , and set sail for some other harbor .
" the ship 's company be reduce to but a handful , the captain call upon the islanders to assist he in the laborious business of heave down the ship to stop the leak . but to such unreste vigilance over their dangerous ally be this small band of white necessitate , both by night and by day , and so extreme be the hard work they underwent , that upon the vessel be ready again for sea , they be in such a weakened condition that the captain durst not put off with they in so heavy a vessel . after take counsel with his officer , he anchor the ship as far off shore as possible ; load and run out his two cannon from the bow ; stack his musket on the poop ; and warn the islanders not to approach the ship at their peril , take one man with he , and set the sail of his good whale - boat , steer straight before the wind for tahiti , five hundred mile distant , to procure a reinforcement to his crew .
" on the fourth day of the sail , a large canoe be descry , which seem to have touch at a low isle of coral . he steer away from it ; but the savage craft bear down on he ; and soon the voice of steelkilt hail he to heave to , or he would run he under water . the captain present a pistol . with one foot on each prow of the yoked war - canoe , the lakeman laugh he to scorn ; assure he that if the pistol so much as click in the lock , he would bury he in bubble and foam .
" ' what do you want of i ? ' cry the captain .
" ' where be you bind ? and for what be you bind ? ' demand steelkilt ; ' no lie . '
" ' i be bind to tahiti for more man . '
" ' very good . let i board you a moment -- i come in peace . ' with that he leap from the canoe , swam to the boat ; and climb the gunwale , stand face to face with the captain .
" ' cross your arm , sir ; throw back your head . now , repeat after i . as soon as steelkilt leave i , i swear to beach this boat on yonder island , and remain there six day . if i do not , may lightning strike i ! '
" ' a pretty scholar , ' laugh the lakeman . ' adios , senor ! ' and leap into the sea , he swam back to his comrade .
" watch the boat till it be fairly beach , and draw up to the root of the cocoa - nut tree , steelkilt make sail again , and in due time arrive at tahiti , his own place of destination . there , luck befriend he ; two ship be about to sail for france , and be providentially in want of precisely that number of man which the sailor head . they embark ; and so for ever get the start of their former captain , have he be at all minded to work they legal retribution .
" some ten day after the french ship sail , the whale - boat arrive , and the captain be force to enlist some of the more civilized tahitians , who have be somewhat used to the sea . charter a small native schooner , he return with they to his vessel ; and find all right there , again resume his cruising .
" where steelkilt now be , gentleman , none know ; but upon the island of nantucket , the widow of radney still turn to the sea which refuse to give up its dead ; still in dream see the awful white whale that destroy he .
" ' be you through ? ' say don sebastian , quietly .
" ' i be , don . '
" ' then i entreat you , tell i if to the good of your own conviction , this your story be in substance really true ? it be so pass wonderful ! do you get it from an unquestionable source ? bear with i if i seem to press . '
" ' also bear with all of we , sir sailor ; for we all join in don sebastian 's suit , ' cry the company , with exceed interest .
" ' be there a copy of the holy evangelists in the golden inn , gentleman ? '
" ' nay , ' say don sebastian ; ' but i know a worthy priest near by , who will quickly procure one for i . i go for it ; but be you well advise ? this may grow too serious . '
" ' will you be so good as to bring the priest also , don ? '
" ' though there be no auto - da - fe be in lima now , ' say one of the company to another ; ' i fear our sailor friend run risk of the archiepiscopacy . let we withdraw more out of the moonlight . i see no need of this . '
" ' excuse i for run after you , don sebastian ; but may i also beg that you will be particular in procure the large sized evangelist you can . '
' this be the priest , he bring you the evangelist , ' say don sebastian , gravely , return with a tall and solemn figure .
" ' let i remove my hat . now , venerable priest , far into the light , and hold the holy book before i that i may touch it .
" ' so help i heaven , and on my honour the story i have tell ye , gentleman , be in substance and its great item , true . i know it to be true ; it happen on this ball ; i trod the ship ; i know the crew ; i have see and talk with steelkilt since the death of radney . ' "
chapter 55
of the monstrous pictures of whales .
i shall ere long paint to you as well as one can without canvas , something like the true form of the whale as he actually appear to the eye of the whaleman when in his own absolute body the whale be moor alongside the whale - ship so that he can be fairly step upon there . it may be worth while , therefore , previously to advert to those curious imaginary portrait of he which even down to the present day confidently challenge the faith of the landsman . it be time to set the world right in this matter , by prove such picture of the whale all wrong .
it may be that the primal source of all those pictorial delusion will be find among the old hindoo , egyptian , and grecian sculpture . for ever since those inventive but unscrupulous time when on the marble panelling of temple , the pedestal of statue , and on shield , medallion , cup , and coin , the dolphin be draw in scale of chain - armor like saladin 's , and a helmeted head like st. george 's ; ever since then have something of the same sort of license prevail , not only in most popular picture of the whale , but in many scientific presentation of he .
now , by all odd , the most ancient extant portrait anyways purport to be the whale 's , be to be find in the famous cavern - pagoda of elephanta , in india . the brahmins maintain that in the almost endless sculpture of that immemorial pagoda , all the trade and pursuit , every conceivable avocation of man , be prefigure age before any of they actually come into being . no wonder then , that in some sort our noble profession of whaling should have be there shadow forth . the hindoo whale refer to , occur in a separate department of the wall , depict the incarnation of vishnu in the form of leviathan , learnedly know as the matse avatar . but though this sculpture be half man and half whale , so as only to give the tail of the latter , yet that small section of he be all wrong . it look more like the taper tail of an anaconda , than the broad palm of the true whale 's majestic fluke .
but go to the old galleries , and look now at a great christian painter 's portrait of this fish ; for he succeed no well than the antediluvian hindoo . it be guido 's picture of perseus rescue andromeda from the sea - monster or whale . where do guido get the model of such a strange creature as that ? nor do hogarth , in paint the same scene in his own " perseus descending , " make out one whit well . the huge corpulence of that hogarthian monster undulate on the surface , scarcely draw one inch of water . it have a sort of howdah on its back , and its distended tusk mouth into which the billow be roll , might be take for the traitors ' gate lead from the thames by water into the tower . then , there be the prodromus whale of old scotch sibbald , and jonah 's whale , as depict in the print of old bible and the cut of old primer . what shall be say of these ? as for the book - binder 's whale winding like a vine - stalk round the stock of a descend anchor -- as stamp and gild on the back and title - page of many book both old and new -- that be a very picturesque but purely fabulous creature , imitate , i take it , from the like figure on antique vas . though universally denominate a dolphin , i nevertheless call this book - binder 's fish an attempt at a whale ; because it be so intended when the device be first introduce . it be introduce by an old italian publisher somewhere about the 15th century , during the revival of learning ; and in those day , and even down to a comparatively late period , dolphin be popularly suppose to be a species of the leviathan .
in the vignette and other embellishment of some ancient book you will at time meet with very curious touch at the whale , where all manner of spout , jet d'eau , hot spring and cold , saratoga and baden - baden , come bubble up from his unexhausted brain . in the title - page of the original edition of the " advancement of learning " you will find some curious whale .
but quit all these unprofessional attempt , let we glance at those picture of leviathan purport to be sober , scientific delineation , by those who know . in old harris 's collection of voyage there be some plate of whale extract from a dutch book of voyage , a.d. 1671 , entitle " a whale voyage to spitzbergen in the ship jonas in the whale , peter peterson of friesland , master . " in one of those plate the whale , like great raft of log , be represent lie among ice - isle , with white bear run over their living back . in another plate , the prodigious blunder be make of represent the whale with perpendicular fluke .
then again , there be an impose quarto , write by one captain colnett , a post captain in the english navy , entitle " a voyage round cape horn into the south seas , for the purpose of extend the spermaceti whale fisheries . " in this book be an outline purport to be a " picture of a physeter or spermaceti whale , draw by scale from one kill on the coast of mexico , august , 1793 , and hoist on deck . " i doubt not the captain have this veracious picture take for the benefit of his marine . to mention but one thing about it , let i say that it have an eye which apply , accord to the accompany scale , to a full grow sperm whale , would make the eye of that whale a bow - window some five foot long . ah , my gallant captain , why do ye not give we jonah look out of that eye !
nor be the most conscientious compilation of natural history for the benefit of the young and tender , free from the same heinousness of mistake . look at that popular work " goldsmith 's animated nature . " in the abridge london edition of 1807 , there be plate of an alleged " whale " and a " narwhale . " i do not wish to seem inelegant , but this unsightly whale look much like an amputated sow ; and , as for the narwhale , one glimpse at it be enough to amaze one , that in this nineteenth century such a hippogriff could be palm for genuine upon any intelligent public of schoolboy .
then , again , in 1825 , bernard germain , count de lacepede , a great naturalist , publish a scientific systemize whale book , wherein be several picture of the different specie of the leviathan . all these be not only incorrect , but the picture of the mysticetus or greenland whale ( that be to say , the right whale ) , even scoresby , a long experienced man as touch that specie , declare not to have its counterpart in nature .
but the placing of the cap - sheaf to all this blunder business be reserve for the scientific frederick cuvier , brother to the famous baron . in 1836 , he publish a natural history of whales , in which he give what he call a picture of the sperm whale . before show that picture to any nantucketer , you have well provide for your summary retreat from nantucket . in a word , frederick cuvier 's sperm whale be not a sperm whale , but a squash . of course , he never have the benefit of a whale voyage ( such man seldom have ) , but whence he derive that picture , who can tell ? perhaps he get it as his scientific predecessor in the same field , desmarest , get one of his authentic abortion ; that be , from a chinese drawing . and what sort of lively lad with the pencil those chinese be , many queer cup and saucer inform we .
as for the sign - painter ' whale see in the street hang over the shop of oil - dealer , what shall be say of they ? they be generally richard iii . whale , with dromedary hump , and very savage ; breakfast on three or four sailor tart , that be whaleboat full of mariner : their deformity flounder in sea of blood and blue paint .
but these manifold mistake in depict the whale be not so very surprising after all . consider ! most of the scientific drawing have be take from the stranded fish ; and these be about as correct as a drawing of a wrecked ship , with break back , would correctly represent the noble animal itself in all its undashed pride of hull and spar . though elephant have stand for their full - length , the live leviathan have never yet fairly float himself for his portrait . the live whale , in his full majesty and significance , be only to be see at sea in unfathomable water ; and afloat the vast bulk of he be out of sight , like a launch line - of - battle ship ; and out of that element it be a thing eternally impossible for mortal man to hoist he bodily into the air , so as to preserve all his mighty swell and undulation . and , not to speak of the highly presumable difference of contour between a young suck whale and a full - grow platonian leviathan ; yet , even in the case of one of those young suck whale hoist to a ship 's deck , such be then the outlandish , eel - like , limber , vary shape of he , that his precise expression the devil himself could not catch .
but it may be fancy , that from the naked skeleton of the stranded whale , accurate hint may be derive touch his true form . not at all . for it be one of the more curious thing about this leviathan , that his skeleton give very little idea of his general shape . though jeremy bentham 's skeleton , which hang for candelabra in the library of one of his executor , correctly convey the idea of a burly - browed utilitarian old gentleman , with all jeremy 's other lead personal characteristic ; yet nothing of this kind could be infer from any leviathan 's articulate bone . in fact , as the great hunter say , the mere skeleton of the whale bear the same relation to the fully invest and pad animal as the insect do to the chrysali that so roundingly envelop it . this peculiarity be strikingly evince in the head , as in some part of this book will be incidentally show . it be also very curiously display in the side fin , the bone of which almost exactly answer to the bone of the human hand , minus only the thumb . this fin have four regular bone - finger , the index , middle , ring , and little finger . but all these be permanently lodge in their fleshy covering , as the human finger in an artificial covering . " however recklessly the whale may sometimes serve we , " say humorous stubb one day , " he can never be truly say to handle we without mitten . "
for all these reason , then , any way you may look at it , you must needs conclude that the great leviathan be that one creature in the world which must remain unpainted to the last . true , one portrait may hit the mark much near than another , but none can hit it with any very considerable degree of exactness . so there be no earthly way of find out precisely what the whale really look like . and the only mode in which you can derive even a tolerable idea of his live contour , be by go a whale yourself ; but by so do , you run no small risk of be eternally stove and sink by he . wherefore , it seem to i you have well not be too fastidious in your curiosity touch this leviathan .
chapter 56
of the less erroneous pictures of whales , and the true pictures of whale scenes .
in connexion with the monstrous picture of whale , i be strongly tempt here to enter upon those still more monstrous story of they which be to be find in certain book , both ancient and modern , especially in pliny , purchas , hackluyt , harris , cuvier , etc . but i pass that matter by .
i know of only four publish outline of the great sperm whale ; colnett 's , huggins 's , frederick cuvier 's , and beale 's . in the previous chapter colnett and cuvier have be refer to . huggins 's be far well than theirs ; but , by great odd , beale 's be the good . all beale 's drawing of this whale be good , except the middle figure in the picture of three whale in various attitude , cap his second chapter . his frontispiece , boat attack sperm whales , though no doubt calculate to excite the civil scepticism of some parlor man , be admirably correct and life - like in its general effect . some of the sperm whale drawing in j. ross browne be pretty correct in contour ; but they be wretchedly engrave . that be not his fault though .
of the right whale , the good outline picture be in scoresby ; but they be draw on too small a scale to convey a desirable impression . he have but one picture of whale scene , and this be a sad deficiency , because it be by such picture only , when at all well do , that you can derive anything like a truthful idea of the live whale as see by his living hunter .
but , take for all in all , by far the fine , though in some detail not the most correct , presentation of whale and whale scene to be anywhere find , be two large french engraving , well execute , and take from painting by one garnery . respectively , they represent attack on the sperm and right whale . in the first engraving a noble sperm whale be depict in full majesty of might , just rise beneath the boat from the profundity of the ocean , and bear high in the air upon his back the terrific wreck of the stoven plank . the prow of the boat be partially unbroken , and be draw just balance upon the monster 's spine ; and stand in that prow , for that one single incomputable flash of time , you behold an oarsman , half shroud by the incense boiling spout of the whale , and in the act of leaping , as if from a precipice . the action of the whole thing be wonderfully good and true . the half - empty line - tub float on the whitened sea ; the wooden pole of the spill harpoon obliquely bob in it ; the head of the swim crew be scatter about the whale in contrast expression of affright ; while in the black stormy distance the ship be bear down upon the scene . serious fault might be find with the anatomical detail of this whale , but let that pass ; since , for the life of i , i could not draw so good a one .
in the second engraving , the boat be in the act of draw alongside the barnacle flank of a large run right whale , that roll his black weedy bulk in the sea like some mossy rock - slide from the patagonian cliff . his jet be erect , full , and black like soot ; so that from so abound a smoke in the chimney , you would think there must be a brave supper cooking in the great bowel below . sea fowl be peck at the small crab , shell - fish , and other sea candy and maccaroni , which the right whale sometimes carry on his pestilent back . and all the while the thick - lipped leviathan be rush through the deep , leave ton of tumultuous white curd in his wake , and cause the slight boat to rock in the swell like a skiff catch nigh the paddle - wheel of an ocean steamer . thus , the foreground be all rag commotion ; but behind , in admirable artistic contrast , be the glassy level of a sea becalmed , the droop unstarched sail of the powerless ship , and the inert mass of a dead whale , a conquered fortress , with the flag of capture lazily hang from the whale - pole insert into his spout - hole .
who garnery the painter be , or be , i know not . but my life for it he be either practically conversant with his subject , or else marvellously tutor by some experienced whaleman . the french be the lad for paint action . go and gaze upon all the painting of europe , and where will you find such a gallery of living and breathe commotion on canvas , as in that triumphal hall at versailles ; where the beholder fight his way , pell - mell , through the consecutive great battle of france ; where every sword seem a flash of the northern lights , and the successive armed king and emperor dash by , like a charge of crown centaur ? not wholly unworthy of a place in that gallery , be these sea battle - piece of garnery .
the natural aptitude of the french for seize the picturesqueness of thing seem to be peculiarly evince in what painting and engraving they have of their whale scene . with not one tenth of england 's experience in the fishery , and not the thousandth part of that of the americans , they have nevertheless furnish both nation with the only finished sketch at all capable of convey the real spirit of the whale hunt . for the most part , the english and american whale draughtsman seem entirely content with present the mechanical outline of thing , such as the vacant profile of the whale ; which , so far as picturesqueness of effect be concern , be about tantamount to sketch the profile of a pyramid . even scoresby , the justly renowned right whaleman , after give we a stiff full length of the greenland whale , and three or four delicate miniature of narwhale and porpoise , treat we to a series of classical engraving of boat hook , chop knife , and grapnel ; and with the microscopic diligence of a leuwenhoeck submit to the inspection of a shiver world ninety - six fac - simile of magnify arctic snow crystal . i mean no disparagement to the excellent voyager ( i honour he for a veteran ) , but in so important a matter it be certainly an oversight not to have procure for every crystal a sworn affidavit take before a greenland justice of the peace .
in addition to those fine engraving from garnery , there be two other french engraving worthy of note , by some one who subscribe himself " h. durand . " one of they , though not precisely adapt to our present purpose , nevertheless deserve mention on other account . it be a quiet noon - scene among the isle of the pacific ; a french whaler anchor , inshore , in a calm , and lazily take water on board ; the loosened sail of the ship , and the long leaf of the palm in the background , both droop together in the breezeless air . the effect be very fine , when consider with reference to its present the hardy fisherman under one of their few aspect of oriental repose . the other engraving be quite a different affair : the ship hove - to upon the open sea , and in the very heart of the leviathanic life , with a right whale alongside ; the vessel ( in the act of cut - in ) hove over to the monster as if to a quay ; and a boat , hurriedly push off from this scene of activity , be about give chase to whale in the distance . the harpoon and lance lie level for use ; three oarsman be just set the mast in its hole ; while from a sudden roll of the sea , the little craft stand half - erect out of the water , like a rear horse . from the ship , the smoke of the torment of the boiling whale be go up like the smoke over a village of smithy ; and to windward , a black cloud , rise up with earnest of squall and rain , seem to quicken the activity of the excited seaman .
chapter 57
of whales in paint ; in teeth ; in wood ; in sheet - iron ; in stone ; in mountains ; in star .
on tower - hill , as you go down to the london dock , you may have see a crippled beggar ( or kedger , as the sailor say ) hold a paint board before he , represent the tragic scene in which he lose his leg . there be three whale and three boat ; and one of the boat ( presume to contain the miss leg in all its original integrity ) be be crunch by the jaw of the foremost whale . any time these ten year , they tell i , have that man hold up that picture , and exhibit that stump to an incredulous world . but the time of his justification have now come . his three whale be as good whale as be ever publish in wapping , at any rate ; and his stump as unquestionable a stump as any you will find in the western clearing . but , though for ever mount on that stump , never a stump - speech do the poor whaleman make ; but , with downcast eye , stand ruefully contemplate his own amputation .
throughout the pacific , and also in nantucket , and new bedford , and sag harbor , you will come across lively sketch of whale and whaling - scene , grave by the fisherman themselves on sperm whale - tooth , or lady ' busk work out of the right whale - bone , and other like skrimshander article , as the whaleman call the numerous little ingenious contrivance they elaborately carve out of the rough material , in their hour of ocean leisure . some of they have little box of dentistical - look implement , specially intend for the skrimshandere business . but , in general , they toil with their jack - knife alone ; and , with that almost omnipotent tool of the sailor , they will turn you out anything you please , in the way of a mariner 's fancy .
long exile from christendom and civilization inevitably restore a man to that condition in which god place he , i.e. what be call savagery . your true whale - hunter be as much a savage as an iroquois . i myself be a savage , own no allegiance but to the king of the cannibals ; and ready at any moment to rebel against he .
now , one of the peculiar characteristic of the savage in his domestic hour , be his wonderful patience of industry . an ancient hawaiian war - club or spear - paddle , in its full multiplicity and elaboration of carving , be as great a trophy of human perseverance as a latin lexicon . for , with but a bit of broken sea - shell or a shark 's tooth , that miraculous intricacy of wooden net - work have be achieve ; and it have cost steady year of steady application .
as with the hawaiian savage , so with the white sailor - savage . with the same marvellous patience , and with the same single shark 's tooth , of his one poor jack - knife , he will carve you a bit of bone sculpture , not quite as workmanlike , but as close pack in its maziness of design , as the greek savage , achilles 's shield ; and full of barbaric spirit and suggestiveness , as the print of that fine old dutch savage , albert durer .
wooden whale , or whale cut in profile out of the small dark slab of the noble south sea war - wood , be frequently meet with in the forecastle of american whaler . some of they be do with much accuracy .
at some old gable - roof country house you will see brass whale hang by the tail for knocker to the road - side door . when the porter be sleepy , the anvil - head whale would be good . but these knock whale be seldom remarkable as faithful essay . on the spire of some old - fashioned church you will see sheet - iron whale place there for weather - cock ; but they be so elevated , and besides that be to all intent and purpose so label with " hands off ! " you can not examine they closely enough to decide upon their merit .
in bony , ribby region of the earth , where at the base of high break cliff mass of rock lie strew in fantastic grouping upon the plain , you will often discover image as of the petrified form of the leviathan partly merge in grass , which of a windy day break against they in a surf of green surge .
then , again , in mountainous country where the traveller be continually girdle by amphitheatrical height ; here and there from some lucky point of view you will catch pass glimpse of the profile of whale define along the undulating ridge . but you must be a thorough whaleman , to see these sight ; and not only that , but if you wish to return to such a sight again , you must be sure and take the exact intersecting latitude and longitude of your first stand - point , else so chance - like be such observation of the hill , that your precise , previous stand - point would require a laborious re - discovery ; like the soloma islands , which still remain incognita , though once high - ruff mendanna trod they and old figuera chronicle they .
nor when expandingly lift by your subject , can you fail to trace out great whale in the starry heaven , and boat in pursuit of they ; as when long fill with thought of war the eastern nation see army lock in battle among the cloud . thus at the north have i chase leviathan round and round the pole with the revolution of the bright point that first define he to i . and beneath the effulgent antarctic sky i have board the argo - navis , and join the chase against the starry cetus far beyond the utmost stretch of hydrus and the flying fish .
with a frigate 's anchor for my bridle - bitt and fasce of harpoon for spur , would i could mount that whale and leap the topmost sky , to see whether the fabled heaven with all their countless tent really lie encamp beyond my mortal sight !
chapter 58
brit .
steer north - eastward from the crozetts , we fall in with vast meadow of brit , the minute , yellow substance , upon which the right whale largely feed . for league and league it undulate round we , so that we seem to be sail through boundless field of ripe and golden wheat .
on the second day , number of right whales be see , who , secure from the attack of a sperm whaler like the pequod , with open jaw sluggishly swam through the brit , which , adhere to the fringing fibre of that wondrous venetian blind in their mouth , be in that manner separate from the water that escape at the lip .
as morning mower , who side by side slowly and seethingly advance their scythe through the long wet grass of marshy mead ; even so these monster swam , make a strange , grassy , cut sound ; and leave behind they endless swath of blue upon the yellow sea . *
* that part of the sea know among whaleman as the " brazil banks " do not bear that name as the banks of newfoundland do , because of there be shallow and sounding there , but because of this remarkable meadow - like appearance , cause by the vast drift of brit continually float in those latitude , where the right whale be often chase .
but it be only the sound they make as they part the brit which at all remind one of mower . see from the mast - head , especially when they pause and be stationary for a while , their vast black form look more like lifeless mass of rock than anything else . and as in the great hunting country of india , the stranger at a distance will sometimes pass on the plain recumbent elephant without know they to be such , take they for bare , blacken elevation of the soil ; even so , often , with he , who for the first time behold this specie of the leviathan of the sea . and even when recognise at last , their immense magnitude render it very hard really to believe that such bulky mass of overgrowth can possibly be instinct , in all part , with the same sort of life that live in a dog or a horse .
indeed , in other respect , you can hardly regard any creature of the deep with the same feeling that you do those of the shore . for though some old naturalist have maintain that all creature of the land be of their kind in the sea ; and though take a broad general view of the thing , this may very well be ; yet come to specialty , where , for example , do the ocean furnish any fish that in disposition answer to the sagacious kindness of the dog ? the accursed shark alone can in any generic respect be say to bear comparative analogy to he .
but though , to landsman in general , the native inhabitant of the sea have ever be regard with emotion unspeakably unsocial and repel ; though we know the sea to be an everlasting terra incognita , so that columbus sail over numberless unknown world to discover his one superficial western one ; though , by vast odd , the most terrific of all mortal disaster have immemorially and indiscriminately befall ten and hundred of thousand of those who have go upon the water ; though but a moment 's consideration will teach , that however baby man may brag of his science and skill , and however much , in a flattering future , that science and skill may augment ; yet for ever and for ever , to the crack of doom , the sea will insult and murder he , and pulverize the stateliest , stiff frigate he can make ; nevertheless , by the continual repetition of these very impression , man have lose that sense of the full awfulness of the sea which aboriginally belong to it .
the first boat we read of , float on an ocean , that with portuguese vengeance have whelm a whole world without leave so much as a widow . that same ocean roll now ; that same ocean destroy the wrecked ship of last year . yea , foolish mortal , noah 's flood be not yet subside ; two third of the fair world it yet cover .
wherein differ the sea and the land , that a miracle upon one be not a miracle upon the other ? preternatural terror rest upon the hebrews , when under the foot of korah and his company the live ground open and swallow they up for ever ; yet not a modern sun ever set , but in precisely the same manner the live sea swallow up ship and crew .
but not only be the sea such a foe to man who be an alien to it , but it be also a fiend to its own off - spring ; bad than the persian host who murder his own guest ; spar not the creature which itself hath spawn . like a savage tigress that toss in the jungle overlay her own cub , so the sea dash even the mighty whale against the rock , and leave they there side by side with the split wreck of ship . no mercy , no power but its own control it . pant and snort like a mad battle steed that have lose its rider , the masterless ocean overrun the globe .
consider the subtleness of the sea ; how its most dread creature glide under water , unapparent for the most part , and treacherously hide beneath the lovely tint of azure . consider also the devilish brilliance and beauty of many of its most remorseless tribe , as the dainty embellish shape of many specie of shark . consider , once more , the universal cannibalism of the sea ; all whose creature prey upon each other , carry on eternal war since the world begin .
consider all this ; and then turn to this green , gentle , and most docile earth ; consider they both , the sea and the land ; and do you not find a strange analogy to something in yourself ? for as this appalling ocean surround the verdant land , so in the soul of man there lie one insular tahiti , full of peace and joy , but encompass by all the horror of the half know life . god keep thee ! push not off from that isle , thou canst never return !
chapter 59
squid .
slowly wad through the meadow of brit , the pequod still hold on her way north - eastward towards the island of java ; a gentle air impel her keel , so that in the surround serenity her three tall tapering mast mildly wave to that languid breeze , as three mild palm on a plain . and still , at wide interval in the silvery night , the lonely , alluring jet would be see .
but one transparent blue morning , when a stillness almost preternatural spread over the sea , however unattended with any stagnant calm ; when the long burnish sun - glade on the water seem a golden finger lay across they , enjoin some secrecy ; when the slippere wave whisper together as they softly run on ; in this profound hush of the visible sphere a strange spectre be see by daggoo from the main - mast - head .
in the distance , a great white mass lazily rise , and rise high and high , and disentangle itself from the azure , at last gleam before our prow like a snow - slide , new slide from the hill . thus glisten for a moment , as slowly it subside , and sink . then once more arose , and silently gleam . it seem not a whale ; and yet be this moby dick ? think daggoo . again the phantom go down , but on re - appear once more , with a stiletto - like cry that startle every man from his nod , the negro yell out--"there ! there again ! there she breach ! right ahead ! the white whale , the white whale ! "
upon this , the seaman rush to the yard - arm , as in swarm - time the bee rush to the bough . bare - head in the sultry sun , ahab stand on the bowsprit , and with one hand push far behind in readiness to wave his order to the helmsman , cast his eager glance in the direction indicate aloft by the outstretche motionless arm of daggoo .
whether the flitting attendance of the one still and solitary jet have gradually work upon ahab , so that he be now prepared to connect the idea of mildness and repose with the first sight of the particular whale he pursue ; however this be , or whether his eagerness betray he ; whichever way it might have be , no soon do he distinctly perceive the white mass , than with a quick intensity he instantly give order for lower .
the four boat be soon on the water ; ahab be in advance , and all swiftly pull towards their prey . soon it go down , and while , with oar suspend , we be await its reappearance , lo ! in the same spot where it sink , once more it slowly rise . almost forget for the moment all thought of moby dick , we now gaze at the most wondrous phenomenon which the secret sea have hitherto reveal to mankind . a vast pulpy mass , furlong in length and breadth , of a glancing cream - colour , lie float on the water , innumerable long arm radiating from its centre , and curling and twist like a nest of anacondas , as if blindly to clutch at any hapless object within reach . no perceptible face or front do it have ; no conceivable token of either sensation or instinct ; but undulate there on the billow , an unearthly , formless , chance - like apparition of life .
as with a low suck sound it slowly disappear again , starbuck still gaze at the agitated water where it have sink , with a wild voice exclaimed--"almost rather have i see moby dick and fight he , than to have see thee , thou white ghost ! "
" what be it , sir ? " say flask .
" the great live squid , which , they say , few whale - ship ever beheld , and return to their port to tell of it . "
but ahab say nothing ; turn his boat , he sail back to the vessel ; the rest as silently follow .
whatever superstition the sperm whaleman in general have connect with the sight of this object , certain it be , that a glimpse of it be so very unusual , that circumstance have go far to invest it with portentousness . so rarely be it beheld , that though one and all of they declare it to be the large animate thing in the ocean , yet very few of they have any but the most vague idea concern its true nature and form ; notwithstanding , they believe it to furnish to the sperm whale his only food . for though other specie of whale find their food above water , and may be see by man in the act of feeding , the spermaceti whale obtain his whole food in unknown zone below the surface ; and only by inference be it that any one can tell of what , precisely , that food consist . at time , when closely pursue , he will disgorge what be suppose to be the detach arm of the squid ; some of they thus exhibit exceed twenty and thirty foot in length . they fancy that the monster to which these arm belong ordinarily cling by they to the bed of the ocean ; and that the sperm whale , unlike other specie , be supply with tooth in order to attack and tear it .
there seem some ground to imagine that the great kraken of bishop pontoppodan may ultimately resolve itself into squid . the manner in which the bishop describe it , as alternately rise and sink , with some other particular he narrate , in all this the two correspond . but much abatement be necessary with respect to the incredible bulk he assign it .
by some naturalist who have vaguely hear rumor of the mysterious creature , here speak of , it be include among the class of cuttle - fish , to which , indeed , in certain external respect it would seem to belong , but only as the anak of the tribe .
chapter 60
the line .
with reference to the whale scene shortly to be describe , as well as for the well understanding of all similar scene elsewhere present , i have here to speak of the magical , sometimes horrible whale - line .
the line originally use in the fishery be of the good hemp , slightly vapoure with tar , not impregnate with it , as in the case of ordinary rope ; for while tar , as ordinarily use , make the hemp more pliable to the rope - maker , and also render the rope itself more convenient to the sailor for common ship use ; yet , not only would the ordinary quantity too much stiffen the whale - line for the close coiling to which it must be subject ; but as most seaman be begin to learn , tar in general by no means add to the rope 's durability or strength , however much it may give it compactness and gloss .
of late year the manilla rope have in the american fishery almost entirely supersede hemp as a material for whale - line ; for , though not so durable as hemp , it be strong , and far more soft and elastic ; and i will add ( since there be an aesthetic in all thing ) , be much more handsome and become to the boat , than hemp . hemp be a dusky , dark fellow , a sort of indian ; but manilla be as a golden - haired circassian to behold .
the whale - line be only two - third of an inch in thickness . at first sight , you would not think it so strong as it really be . by experiment its one and fifty yarn will each suspend a weight of one hundred and twenty pound ; so that the whole rope will bear a strain nearly equal to three ton . in length , the common sperm whale - line measure something over two hundred fathom . towards the stern of the boat it be spirally coil away in the tub , not like the worm - pipe of a still though , but so as to form one round , cheese - shape mass of densely bed " sheaf , " or layer of concentric spiralization , without any hollow but the " heart , " or minute vertical tube form at the axis of the cheese . as the least tangle or kink in the coiling would , in run out , infallibly take somebody 's arm , leg , or entire body off , the utmost precaution be use in stow the line in its tub . some harpooneer will consume almost an entire morning in this business , carry the line high aloft and then reeve it downwards through a block towards the tub , so as in the act of coil to free it from all possible wrinkle and twist .
in the english boat two tub be use instead of one ; the same line be continuously coil in both tub . there be some advantage in this ; because these twin - tub be so small they fit more readily into the boat , and do not strain it so much ; whereas , the american tub , nearly three foot in diameter and of proportionate depth , make a rather bulky freight for a craft whose plank be but one half - inch in thickness ; for the bottom of the whale - boat be like critical ice , which will bear up a considerable distribute weight , but not very much of a concentrated one . when the paint canvas cover be clap on the american line - tub , the boat look as if it be pull off with a prodigious great wedding - cake to present to the whale .
both end of the line be expose ; the low end terminate in an eye - splice or loop come up from the bottom against the side of the tub , and hang over its edge completely disengage from everything . this arrangement of the low end be necessary on two account . first : in order to facilitate the fastening to it of an additional line from a neighboring boat , in case the stricken whale should sound so deep as to threaten to carry off the entire line originally attach to the harpoon . in these instance , the whale of course be shift like a mug of ale , as it be , from the one boat to the other ; though the first boat always hover at hand to assist its consort . second : this arrangement be indispensable for common safety 's sake ; for be the low end of the line in any way attach to the boat , and be the whale then to run the line out to the end almost in a single , smoking minute as he sometimes do , he would not stop there , for the doomed boat would infallibly be drag down after he into the profundity of the sea ; and in that case no town - crier would ever find she again .
before lower the boat for the chase , the upper end of the line be take aft from the tub , and pass round the loggerhead there , be again carry forward the entire length of the boat , rest crosswise upon the loom or handle of every man 's oar , so that it jog against his wrist in rowing ; and also pass between the man , as they alternately sit at the opposite gunwale , to the leaded chock or groove in the extreme pointed prow of the boat , where a wooden pin or skewer the size of a common quill , prevent it from slip out . from the chock it hang in a slight festoon over the bow , and be then pass inside the boat again ; and some ten or twenty fathom ( call box - line ) be coil upon the box in the bow , it continue its way to the gunwale still a little further aft , and be then attach to the short - warp -- the rope which be immediately connect with the harpoon ; but previous to that connexion , the short - warp go through sundry mystification too tedious to detail .
thus the whale - line fold the whole boat in its complicated coil , twisting and writhe around it in almost every direction . all the oarsman be involve in its perilous contortion ; so that to the timid eye of the landsman , they seem as indian juggler , with the deadly snake sportively festoon their limb . nor can any son of mortal woman , for the first time , seat himself amid those hempen intricacy , and while strain his utmost at the oar , bethink he that at any unknown instant the harpoon may be dart , and all these horrible contortion be put in play like ring lightning ; he can not be thus circumstance without a shudder that make the very marrow in his bone to quiver in he like a shake jelly . yet habit -- strange thing ! what can not habit accomplish?--gayer sally , more merry mirth , well joke , and bright repartee , you never hear over your mahogany , than you will hear over the half - inch white cedar of the whale - boat , when thus hang in hangman 's noose ; and , like the six burgher of calais before king edward , the six man compose the crew pull into the jaw of death , with a halter around every neck , as you may say .
perhaps a very little thought will now enable you to account for those repeat whaling disaster -- some few of which be casually chronicle -- of this man or that man be take out of the boat by the line , and lose . for , when the line be dart out , to be seat then in the boat , be like be seat in the midst of the manifold whizzing of a steam - engine in full play , when every fly beam , and shaft , and wheel , be graze you . it be bad ; for you can not sit motionless in the heart of these peril , because the boat be rock like a cradle , and you be pitch one way and the other , without the slight warning ; and only by a certain self - adjust buoyancy and simultaneousness of volition and action , can you escape be make a mazeppa of , and run away with where the all - see sun himself could never pierce you out .
again : as the profound calm which only apparently precede and prophesie of the storm , be perhaps more awful than the storm itself ; for , indeed , the calm be but the wrapper and envelope of the storm ; and contain it in itself , as the seemingly harmless rifle hold the fatal powder , and the ball , and the explosion ; so the graceful repose of the line , as it silently serpentine about the oarsman before be bring into actual play -- this be a thing which carry more of true terror than any other aspect of this dangerous affair . but why say more ? all man live envelop in whale - line . all be bear with halter round their neck ; but it be only when catch in the swift , sudden turn of death , that mortal realize the silent , subtle , ever - present peril of life . and if you be a philosopher , though seat in the whale - boat , you would not at heart feel one whit more of terror , than though seat before your evening fire with a poker , and not a harpoon , by your side .
chapter 61
stubb kill a whale .
if to starbuck the apparition of the squid be a thing of portent , to queequeg it be quite a different object .
" when you see he ' quid , " say the savage , hone his harpoon in the bow of his hoist boat , " then you quick see he ' parm whale . "
the next day be exceedingly still and sultry , and with nothing special to engage they , the pequod 's crew could hardly resist the spell of sleep induce by such a vacant sea . for this part of the indian ocean through which we then be voyage be not what whaleman call a lively ground ; that is , it afford few glimpse of porpoise , dolphin , flying - fish , and other vivacious denizen of more stirring water , than those off the rio de la plata , or the in - shore ground off peru .
it be my turn to stand at the foremast - head ; and with my shoulder lean against the slacken royal shroud , to and fro i idly sway in what seem an enchanted air . no resolution could withstand it ; in that dreamy mood lose all consciousness , at last my soul go out of my body ; though my body still continue to sway as a pendulum will , long after the power which first move it be withdraw .
ere forgetfulness altogether come over i , i have notice that the seaman at the main and mizzen - mast - head be already drowsy . so that at last all three of we lifelessly swing from the spar , and for every swing that we make there be a nod from below from the slumber helmsman . the wave , too , nod their indolent crest ; and across the wide trance of the sea , east nod to west , and the sun over all .
suddenly bubble seem burst beneath my closed eye ; like vice my hand grasp the shroud ; some invisible , gracious agency preserve i ; with a shock i come back to life . and lo ! close under our lee , not forty fathom off , a gigantic sperm whale lie roll in the water like the capsize hull of a frigate , his broad , glossy back , of an ethiopian hue , glisten in the sun 's ray like a mirror . but lazily undulate in the trough of the sea , and ever and anon tranquilly spout his vapoury jet , the whale look like a portly burgher smoke his pipe of a warm afternoon . but that pipe , poor whale , be thy last . as if strike by some enchanter 's wand , the sleepy ship and every sleeper in it all at once start into wakefulness ; and more than a score of voice from all part of the vessel , simultaneously with the three note from aloft , shout forth the accustomed cry , as the great fish slowly and regularly spout the sparkle brine into the air .
" clear away the boat ! luff ! " cry ahab . and obey his own order , he dash the helm down before the helmsman could handle the spoke .
the sudden exclamation of the crew must have alarm the whale ; and ere the boat be down , majestically turn , he swam away to the leeward , but with such a steady tranquillity , and make so few ripple as he swam , that think after all he might not as yet be alarm , ahab give order that not an oar should be use , and no man must speak but in whisper . so seat like ontario indians on the gunwale of the boat , we swiftly but silently paddle along ; the calm not admit of the noiseless sail be set . presently , as we thus glide in chase , the monster perpendicularly flit his tail forty foot into the air , and then sink out of sight like a tower swallow up .
" there go fluke ! " be the cry , an announcement immediately follow by stubb 's produce his match and ignite his pipe , for now a respite be grant . after the full interval of his sounding have elapse , the whale rise again , and be now in advance of the smoker 's boat , and much near to it than to any of the other , stubb count upon the honour of the capture . it be obvious , now , that the whale have at length become aware of his pursuer . all silence of cautiousness be therefore no long of use . paddle be drop , and oar come loudly into play . and still puff at his pipe , stubb cheer on his crew to the assault .
yes , a mighty change have come over the fish . all alive to his jeopardy , he be go " head out " ; that part obliquely project from the mad yeast which he brew . *
* it will be see in some other place of what a very light substance the entire interior of the sperm whale 's enormous head consist . though apparently the most massive , it be by far the most buoyant part about he . so that with ease he elevate it in the air , and invariably do so when go at his utmost speed . besides , such be the breadth of the upper part of the front of his head , and such the taper cut - water formation of the low part , that by obliquely elevate his head , he thereby may be say to transform himself from a bluff - bow sluggish galliot into a sharppointe new york pilot - boat .
" start she , start she , my man ! do not hurry yourself ; take plenty of time -- but start she ; start she like thunder - clap , that be all , " cry stubb , splutter out the smoke as he speak . " start she , now ; give them the long and strong stroke , tashtego . start she , tash , my boy -- start she , all ; but keep cool , keep cool -- cucumber be the word -- easy , easy -- only start she like grim death and grinning devil , and raise the bury dead perpendicular out of their graf , boy -- that be all . start she ! "
" woo - hoo ! wa - hee ! " scream the gay - header in reply , raise some old war - whoop to the sky ; as every oarsman in the strained boat involuntarily bounce forward with the one tremendous lead stroke which the eager indian give .
but his wild scream be answer by other quite as wild . " kee - hee ! kee - hee ! " yell daggoo , strain forwards and backwards on his seat , like a pacing tiger in his cage .
" ka - la ! koo - loo ! " howl queequeg , as if smack his lip over a mouthful of grenadier 's steak . and thus with oar and yell the keel cut the sea . meanwhile , stubb retain his place in the van , still encourage his man to the onset , all the while puff the smoke from his mouth . like desperado they tug and they strain , till the welcome cry be heard--"stand up , tashtego!--give it to he ! " the harpoon be hurl . " stern all ! " the oarsman back water ; the same moment something go hot and hiss along every one of their wrist . it be the magical line . an instant before , stubb have swiftly catch two additional turn with it round the loggerhead , whence , by reason of its increase rapid circling , a hempen blue smoke now jet up and mingle with the steady fume from his pipe . as the line pass round and round the loggerhead ; so also , just before reach that point , it blisteringly pass through and through both of stubb 's hand , from which the hand - cloth , or square of quilt canvas sometimes wear at these time , have accidentally drop . it be like hold an enemy 's sharp two - edge sword by the blade , and that enemy all the time strive to wrest it out of your clutch .
" wet the line ! wet the line ! " cry stubb to the tub oarsman ( he seat by the tub ) who , snatch off his hat , dash sea - water into it . * more turn be take , so that the line begin hold its place . the boat now fly through the boiling water like a shark all fin . stubb and tashtego here change place -- stem for stern -- a staggering business truly in that rock commotion .
* partly to show the indispensableness of this act , it may here be state , that , in the old dutch fishery , a mop be use to dash the run line with water ; in many other ship , a wooden piggin , or bailer , be set apart for that purpose . your hat , however , be the most convenient .
from the vibrate line extend the entire length of the upper part of the boat , and from its now be more tight than a harpstring , you would have think the craft have two keel -- one cleave the water , the other the air -- as the boat churn on through both oppose element at once . a continual cascade play at the bow ; a ceaseless whirl eddy in her wake ; and , at the slight motion from within , even but of a little finger , the vibrating , crack craft cant over her spasmodic gunwale into the sea . thus they rush ; each man with might and main clinging to his seat , to prevent be toss to the foam ; and the tall form of tashtego at the steering oar crouch almost double , in order to bring down his centre of gravity . whole atlantics and pacifics seem pass as they shoot on their way , till at length the whale somewhat slacken his flight .
" haul in -- haul in ! " cry stubb to the bowsman ! and , face round towards the whale , all hand begin pull the boat up to he , while yet the boat be be tow on . soon range up by his flank , stubb , firmly plant his knee in the clumsy cleat , dart dart after dart into the fly fish ; at the word of command , the boat alternately sterne out of the way of the whale 's horrible wallow , and then range up for another fling .
the red tide now pour from all side of the monster like brook down a hill . his tormented body roll not in brine but in blood , which bubble and seethe for furlong behind in their wake . the slanting sun play upon this crimson pond in the sea , send back its reflection into every face , so that they all glow to each other like red man . and all the while , jet after jet of white smoke be agonizingly shoot from the spiracle of the whale , and vehement puff after puff from the mouth of the excited headsman ; as at every dart , haul in upon his crooked lance ( by the line attach to it ) , stubb straighten it again and again , by a few rapid blow against the gunwale , then again and again send it into the whale .
" pull up -- pull up ! " he now cry to the bowsman , as the wan whale relax in his wrath . " pull up!--close to ! " and the boat range along the fish 's flank . when reach far over the bow , stubb slowly churn his long sharp lance into the fish , and keep it there , carefully churn and churn , as if cautiously seek to feel after some gold watch that the whale might have swallow , and which he be fearful of break ere he could hook it out . but that gold watch he seek be the innermost life of the fish . and now it be strike ; for , start from his trance into that unspeakable thing call his " flurry , " the monster horribly wallow in his blood , overwrappe himself in impenetrable , mad , boiling spray , so that the imperille craft , instantly drop astern , have much ado blindly to struggle out from that phrensie twilight into the clear air of the day .
and now abate in his flurry , the whale once more roll out into view ; surge from side to side ; spasmodically dilate and contract his spout - hole , with sharp , crack , agonize respiration . at last , gush after gush of clot red gore , as if it have be the purple lee of red wine , shoot into the fright air ; and fall back again , run dripping down his motionless flank into the sea . his heart have burst !
" he be dead , mr. stubb , " say daggoo .
" yes ; both pipe smoke out ! " and withdraw his own from his mouth , stubb scatter the dead ash over the water ; and , for a moment , stand thoughtfully eye the vast corpse he have make .
chapter 62
the dart .
a word concern an incident in the last chapter .
accord to the invariable usage of the fishery , the whale - boat push off from the ship , with the headsman or whale - killer as temporary steersman , and the harpooneer or whale - fastener pull the foremost oar , the one know as the harpooneer - oar . now it need a strong , nervous arm to strike the first iron into the fish ; for often , in what be call a long dart , the heavy implement have to be fling to the distance of twenty or thirty foot . but however prolonged and exhaust the chase , the harpooneer be expect to pull his oar meanwhile to the uttermost ; indeed , he be expect to set an example of superhuman activity to the rest , not only by incredible rowing , but by repeat loud and intrepid exclamation ; and what it be to keep shout at the top of one 's compass , while all the other muscle be strained and half start -- what that be none know but those who have try it . for one , i can not bawl very heartily and work very recklessly at one and the same time . in this straining , bawl state , then , with his back to the fish , all at once the exhausted harpooneer hear the exciting cry--"stand up , and give it to he ! " he now have to drop and secure his oar , turn round on his centre half way , seize his harpoon from the crotch , and with what little strength may remain , he essay to pitch it somehow into the whale . no wonder , take the whole fleet of whaleman in a body , that out of fifty fair chance for a dart , not five be successful ; no wonder that so many hapless harpooneer be madly curse and disrate ; no wonder that some of they actually burst their blood - vessel in the boat ; no wonder that some sperm whaleman be absent four year with four barrel ; no wonder that to many ship owner , whale be but a lose concern ; for it be the harpooneer that make the voyage , and if you take the breath out of his body how can you expect to find it there when most want !
again , if the dart be successful , then at the second critical instant , that is , when the whale start to run , the boatheader and harpooneer likewise start to run fore and aft , to the imminent jeopardy of themselves and every one else . it be then they change place ; and the headsman , the chief officer of the little craft , take his proper station in the bow of the boat .
now , i care not who maintain the contrary , but all this be both foolish and unnecessary . the headsman should stay in the bow from first to last ; he should both dart the harpoon and the lance , and no rowing whatever should be expect of he , except under circumstance obvious to any fisherman . i know that this would sometimes involve a slight loss of speed in the chase ; but long experience in various whaleman of more than one nation have convince i that in the vast majority of failure in the fishery , it have not by any mean be so much the speed of the whale as the before describe exhaustion of the harpooneer that have cause they .
to insure the great efficiency in the dart , the harpooneer of this world must start to their foot from out of idleness , and not from out of toil .
chapter 63
the crotch .
out of the trunk , the branch grow ; out of they , the twig . so , in productive subject , grow the chapter .
the crotch allude to on a previous page deserve independent mention . it be a notched stick of a peculiar form , some two foot in length , which be perpendicularly insert into the starboard gunwale near the bow , for the purpose of furnish a rest for the wooden extremity of the harpoon , whose other naked , barbed end slopingly project from the prow . thereby the weapon be instantly at hand to its hurler , who snatch it up as readily from its rest as a backwoodsman swing his rifle from the wall . it be customary to have two harpoon repose in the crotch , respectively call the first and second iron .
but these two harpoon , each by its own cord , be both connect with the line ; the object be this : to dart they both , if possible , one instantly after the other into the same whale ; so that if , in the come drag , one should draw out , the other may still retain a hold . it be a doubling of the chance . but it very often happen that owe to the instantaneous , violent , convulsive run of the whale upon receive the first iron , it become impossible for the harpooneer , however lightning - like in his movement , to pitch the second iron into he . nevertheless , as the second iron be already connect with the line , and the line be run , hence that weapon must , at all event , be anticipatingly toss out of the boat , somehow and somewhere ; else the most terrible jeopardy would involve all hand . tumble into the water , it accordingly be in such case ; the spare coil of box line ( mention in a precede chapter ) make this feat , in most instance , prudently practicable . but this critical act be not always unattended with the sad and most fatal casualty .
furthermore : you must know that when the second iron be throw overboard , it thenceforth become a dangle , sharp - edge terror , skittishly curvet about both boat and whale , entangle the line , or cut they , and make a prodigious sensation in all direction . nor , in general , be it possible to secure it again until the whale be fairly capture and a corpse .
consider , now , how it must be in the case of four boat all engage one unusually strong , active , and know whale ; when owe to these quality in he , as well as to the thousand concur accident of such an audacious enterprise , eight or ten loose second iron may be simultaneously dangle about he . for , of course , each boat be supply with several harpoon to bend on to the line should the first one be ineffectually dart without recovery . all these particular be faithfully narrated here , as they will not fail to elucidate several most important , however intricate passage , in scene hereafter to be paint .
chapter 64
stubb 's supper .
stubb 's whale have be kill some distance from the ship . it be a calm ; so , form a tandem of three boat , we commence the slow business of tow the trophy to the pequod . and now , as we eighteen man with our thirty - six arm , and one hundred and eighty thumb and finger , slowly toil hour after hour upon that inert , sluggish corpse in the sea ; and it seem hardly to budge at all , except at long interval ; good evidence be hereby furnish of the enormousness of the mass we move . for , upon the great canal of hang - ho , or whatever they call it , in china , four or five laborer on the foot - path will draw a bulky freight junk at the rate of a mile an hour ; but this grand argosy we tow heavily forge along , as if laden with pig - lead in bulk .
darkness come on ; but three light up and down in the pequod 's main - rig dimly guide our way ; till draw near we see ahab drop one of several more lantern over the bulwark . vacantly eye the heaving whale for a moment , he issue the usual order for secure it for the night , and then hand his lantern to a seaman , go his way into the cabin , and do not come forward again until morning .
though , in oversee the pursuit of this whale , captain ahab have evince his customary activity , to call it so ; yet now that the creature be dead , some vague dissatisfaction , or impatience , or despair , seem work in he ; as if the sight of that dead body remind he that moby dick be yet to be slay ; and though a thousand other whale be bring to his ship , all that would not one jot advance his grand , monomaniac object . very soon you would have think from the sound on the pequod 's deck , that all hand be prepare to cast anchor in the deep ; for heavy chain be be drag along the deck , and thrust rattle out of the port - hole . but by those clank link , the vast corpse itself , not the ship , be to be moor . tie by the head to the stern , and by the tail to the bow , the whale now lie with its black hull close to the vessel 's and see through the darkness of the night , which obscure the spar and rig aloft , the two -- ship and whale , seem yoke together like colossal bullock , whereof one recline while the other remain stand . *
* a little item may as well be relate here . the strong and most reliable hold which the ship have upon the whale when moor alongside , be by the fluke or tail ; and as from its great density that part be relatively heavy than any other ( except the side - fins ) , its flexibility even in death , cause it to sink low beneath the surface ; so that with the hand you can not get at it from the boat , in order to put the chain round it . but this difficulty be ingeniously overcome : a small , strong line be prepare with a wooden float at its outer end , and a weight in its middle , while the other end be secure to the ship . by adroit management the wooden float be make to rise on the other side of the mass , so that now having girdle the whale , the chain be readily make to follow suit ; and be slip along the body , be at last lock fast round the small part of the tail , at the point of junction with its broad fluke or lobe .
if moody ahab be now all quiescence , at least so far as could be know on deck , stubb , his second mate , flush with conquest , betray an unusual but still good - natured excitement . such an unwonted bustle be he in that the staid starbuck , his official superior , quietly resign to he for the time the sole management of affair . one small , help cause of all this liveliness in stubb , be soon make strangely manifest . stubb be a high liver ; he be somewhat intemperately fond of the whale as a flavorish thing to his palate .
" a steak , a steak , ere i sleep ! you , daggoo ! overboard you go , and cut i one from his small ! "
here be it know , that though these wild fisherman do not , as a general thing , and accord to the great military maxim , make the enemy defray the current expense of the war ( at least before realize the proceed of the voyage ) , yet now and then you find some of these nantucketers who have a genuine relish for that particular part of the sperm whale designate by stubb ; comprise the taper extremity of the body .
about midnight that steak be cut and cook ; and light by two lantern of sperm oil , stubb stoutly stand up to his spermaceti supper at the capstan - head , as if that capstan be a sideboard . nor be stubb the only banqueter on whale 's flesh that night . mingle their mumbling with his own mastication , thousand on thousand of shark , swarm round the dead leviathan , smackingly feast on its fatness . the few sleeper below in their bunk be often startle by the sharp slapping of their tail against the hull , within a few inch of the sleeper ' heart . peer over the side you could just see they ( as before you hear they ) wallow in the sullen , black water , and turn over on their back as they scoop out huge globular piece of the whale of the bigness of a human head . this particular feat of the shark seem all but miraculous . how at such an apparently unassailable surface , they contrive to gouge out such symmetrical mouthful , remain a part of the universal problem of all thing . the mark they thus leave on the whale , may well be liken to the hollow make by a carpenter in countersink for a screw .
though amid all the smoking horror and diabolism of a sea - fight , shark will be see longingly gaze up to the ship 's deck , like hungry dog round a table where red meat be be carve , ready to bolt down every kill man that be toss to they ; and though , while the valiant butcher over the deck - table be thus cannibally carve each other 's live meat with carving - knife all gild and tassel , the shark , also , with their jewel - hilte mouth , be quarrelsomely carve away under the table at the dead meat ; and though , be you to turn the whole affair upside down , it would still be pretty much the same thing , that be to say , a shocking sharkish business enough for all party ; and though shark also be the invariable outrider of all slave ship cross the atlantic , systematically trot alongside , to be handy in case a parcel be to be carry anywhere , or a dead slave to be decently bury ; and though one or two other like instance might be set down , touch the set term , place , and occasion , when shark do most socially congregate , and most hilariously feast ; yet be there no conceivable time or occasion when you will find they in such countless number , and in gayer or more jovial spirit , than around a dead sperm whale , moor by night to a whaleship at sea . if you have never see that sight , then suspend your decision about the propriety of devil - worship , and the expediency of conciliate the devil .
but , as yet , stubb heed not the mumbling of the banquet that be go on so nigh he , no more than the shark heed the smacking of his own epicurean lip .
" cook , cook!--where be that old fleece ? " he cry at length , widen his leg still far , as if to form a more secure base for his supper ; and , at the same time dart his fork into the dish , as if stab with his lance ; " cook , you cook!--sail this way , cook ! "
the old black , not in any very high glee at having be previously rouse from his warm hammock at a most unseasonable hour , came shamble along from his galley , for , like many old black , there be something the matter with his knee - pan , which he do not keep well scour like his other pan ; this old fleece , as they call he , came shuffle and limp along , assist his step with his tong , which , after a clumsy fashion , be make of straightened iron hoop ; this old ebony flounder along , and in obedience to the word of command , come to a dead stop on the opposite side of stubb 's sideboard ; when , with both hand fold before he , and rest on his two - legged cane , he bow his arched back still far over , at the same time sideway incline his head , so as to bring his good ear into play .
" cook , " say stubb , rapidly lift a rather reddish morsel to his mouth , " do not you think this steak be rather overdone ? you have be beat this steak too much , cook ; it be too tender . do not i always say that to be good , a whale - steak must be tough ? there be those shark now over the side , do not you see they prefer it tough and rare ? what a shindy they be kick up ! cook , go and talk to them ; tell them they be welcome to help themselves civilly , and in moderation , but they must keep quiet . blast i , if i can hear my own voice . away , cook , and deliver my message . here , take this lantern , " snatch one from his sideboard ; " now then , go and preach to them ! "
sullenly take the offer lantern , old fleece limp across the deck to the bulwark ; and then , with one hand drop his light low over the sea , so as to get a good view of his congregation , with the other hand he solemnly flourish his tong , and lean far over the side in a mumbling voice begin address the shark , while stubb , softly crawl behind , overheard all that be say .
" fellow - critter : i'se order here to say dat you must stop dat dam noise dare . you hear ? stop dat dam smackin ' ob de lip ! massa stubb say dat you can fill your dam belly up to de hatching , but by gor ! you must stop dat dam racket ! "
" cook , " here interpose stubb , accompany the word with a sudden slap on the shoulder,--"cook ! why , damn your eye , you must not swear that way when you be preach . that be no way to convert sinner , cook ! "
" who dat ? den preach to he yourself , " sullenly turn to go .
" no , cook ; go on , go on . "
" well , den , belubed fellow - critters:"-
" right ! " exclaim stubb , approvingly , " coax them to it ; try that , " and fleece continue .
" do you be all shark , and by natur wery woracious , yet i zay to you , fellow - critter , dat dat woraciousness--'top dat dam slappin ' ob de tail ! how you tink to hear , spose you keep up such a dam slappin ' and bitin ' dare ? "
" cook , " cry stubb , collar he , " i will not have that swearing . talk to them gentlemanly . "
once more the sermon proceed .
" your woraciousness , fellow - critter , i do not blame ye so much for ; dat be natur , and can not be help ; but to gobern dat wicked natur , dat be de pint . you be shark , sartin ; but if you gobern de shark in you , why den you be angel ; for all angel be not'e more dan de shark well goberne . now , look here , bred'ren , just try wonst to be cibil , a help yourselbs from dat whale . do not be tearin ' de blubber out your neighbour 's mout , i say . be not one shark dood right as toder to dat whale ? and , by gor , none on you have de right to dat whale ; dat whale belong to some one else . i know some o ' you have berry brig mout , brigger dan oder ; but den de brig mout sometimes have de small belly ; so dat de brigness of de mout be not to swaller wid , but to bit off de blubber for de small fry ob sharks , dat can not get into de scrouge to help demselve . "
" well do , old fleece ! " cry stubb , " that be christianity ; go on . "
" no use go on ; de dam willain will keep a scougin ' and slappin ' each oder , massa stubb ; dey do not hear one word ; no use a - preaching to such dam g'utton as you call them , till dare belly be full , and dare belly be bottomless ; and when dey do get them full , dey will not hear you den ; for den dey sink in the sea , go fast to sleep on de coral , and can not hear note at all , no more , for eber and eber . "
" upon my soul , i be about of the same opinion ; so give the benediction , fleece , and i will away to my supper . "
upon this , fleece , hold both hand over the fishy mob , raise his shrill voice , and cried--
" cuss fellow - critter ! kick up de damnd row as ever you can ; fill your dam belly ' till dey bust -- and den die . "
" now , cook , " say stubb , resume his supper at the capstan ; " stand just where you stand before , there , over against i , and pay particular attention . "
" all ' dention , " say fleece , again stoop over upon his tong in the desire position .
" well , " say stubb , help himself freely meanwhile ; " i shall now go back to the subject of this steak . in the first place , how old be you , cook ? "
" what dat do wid de ' teak , " say the old black , testily .
" silence ! how old be you , cook ? "
" ' bout ninety , dey say , " he gloomily mutter .
" and you have live in this world hard upon one hundred year , cook , and do not know yet how to cook a whale - steak ? " rapidly bolt another mouthful at the last word , so that morsel seem a continuation of the question . " where be you bear , cook ? "
" ' hind de hatchway , in ferry - boat , go ober de roanoke . "
" bear in a ferry - boat ! that be queer , too . but i want to know what country you be bear in , cook ! "
" do not i say de roanoke country ? " he cry sharply .
" no , you do not , cook ; but i will tell you what i be come to , cook . you must go home and be bear over again ; you do not know how to cook a whale - steak yet . "
" bress my soul , if i cook noder one , " he growl , angrily , turn round to depart .
" come back here , cook;--here , hand i those tongs;--now take that bit of steak there , and tell i if you think that steak cook as it should be ? take it , i say"--holde the tong towards him--"take it , and taste it . "
faintly smack his withered lip over it for a moment , the old negro mutter , " good cook ' teak i eber taste ; joosy , berry joosy . "
" cook , " say stubb , square himself once more ; " do you belong to the church ? "
" pass one once in cape - down , " say the old man sullenly .
" and you have once in your life pass a holy church in cape - town , where you doubtless overhear a holy parson address his hearer as his beloved fellow - creature , have you , cook ! and yet you come here , and tell i such a dreadful lie as you do just now , eh ? " say stubb . " where do you expect to go to , cook ? "
" go to bed berry soon , " he mumble , half - turning as he speak .
" avast ! heave to ! i mean when you die , cook . it be an awful question . now what be your answer ? "
" when dis old brack man die , " say the negro slowly , change his whole air and demeanor , " he hisself will not go nowhere ; but some bresse angel will come and fetch he . "
" fetch he ? how ? in a coach and four , as they fetch elijah ? and fetch he where ? "
" up dere , " say fleece , hold his tong straight over his head , and keep it there very solemnly .
" so , then , you expect to go up into our main - top , do you , cook , when you be dead ? but do not you know the high you climb , the colder it get ? main - top , eh ? "
" do not say dat t'all , " say fleece , again in the sulk .
" you say up there , do not you ? and now look yourself , and see where your tong be point . but , perhaps you expect to get into heaven by crawl through the lubber 's hole , cook ; but , no , no , cook , you do not get there , except you go the regular way , round by the rigging . it be a ticklish business , but must be do , or else it be no go . but none of we be in heaven yet . drop your tong , cook , and hear my order . do ye hear ? hold your hat in one hand , and clap t'other a'top of your heart , when i be give my order , cook . what ! that your heart , there?--that be your gizzard ! aloft ! aloft!--that be it -- now you have it . hold it there now , and pay attention . "
" all ' dention , " say the old black , with both hand place as desire , vainly wriggle his grizzle head , as if to get both ear in front at one and the same time .
" well then , cook , you see this whale - steak of yours be so very bad , that i have put it out of sight as soon as possible ; you see that , do not you ? well , for the future , when you cook another whale - steak for my private table here , the capstan , i will tell you what to do so as not to spoil it by overdo . hold the steak in one hand , and show a live coal to it with the other ; that do , dish it ; d'ye hear ? and now to - morrow , cook , when we be cut in the fish , be sure you stand by to get the tip of his fin ; have they put in pickle . as for the end of the fluke , have they souse , cook . there , now ye may go . "
but fleece have hardly get three pace off , when he be recall .
" cook , give i cutlet for supper to - morrow night in the mid - watch . d'ye hear ? away you sail , then.--halloa ! stop ! make a bow before you go.--avast heave again ! whale - ball for breakfast -- don't forget . "
" wish , by gor ! whale eat he , ' stead of he eat whale . i be bresse if he be not more of shark dan massa shark hisself , " mutter the old man , limp away ; with which sage ejaculation he go to his hammock .
chapter 65
the whale as a dish .
that mortal man should feed upon the creature that feed his lamp , and , like stubb , eat he by his own light , as you may say ; this seem so outlandish a thing that one must need go a little into the history and philosophy of it .
it be upon record , that three century ago the tongue of the right whale be esteem a great delicacy in france , and command large price there . also , that in henry viiith 's time , a certain cook of the court obtain a handsome reward for invent an admirable sauce to be eat with barbacued porpoise , which , you remember , be a species of whale . porpoise , indeed , be to this day consider fine eating . the meat be make into ball about the size of billiard ball , and be well season and spice might be take for turtle - ball or veal ball . the old monk of dunfermline be very fond of they . they have a great porpoise grant from the crown .
the fact be , that among his hunter at least , the whale would by all hand be consider a noble dish , be there not so much of he ; but when you come to sit down before a meat - pie nearly one hundred foot long , it take away your appetite . only the most unprejudiced of man like stubb , nowadays partake of cooked whale ; but the esquimaux be not so fastidious . we all know how they live upon whale , and have rare old vintage of prime old train oil . zogranda , one of their most famous doctor , recommend strip of blubber for infant , as be exceedingly juicy and nourishing . and this remind i that certain englishmen , who long ago be accidentally leave in greenland by a whale vessel -- that these man actually live for several month on the mouldy scrap of whale which have be leave ashore after try out the blubber . among the dutch whaleman these scrap be call " fritter " ; which , indeed , they greatly resemble , be brown and crisp , and smell something like old amsterdam housewife ' dough - nuts or oly - cook , when fresh . they have such an eatable look that the most self - deny stranger can hardly keep his hand off .
but what far depreciate the whale as a civilized dish , be his exceed richness . he be the great prize ox of the sea , too fat to be delicately good . look at his hump , which would be as fine eating as the buffalo 's ( which be esteem a rare dish ) , be it not such a solid pyramid of fat . but the spermaceti itself , how bland and creamy that be ; like the transparent , half - jelly , white meat of a cocoanut in the third month of its growth , yet far too rich to supply a substitute for butter . nevertheless , many whaleman have a method of absorb it into some other substance , and then partake of it . in the long try watch of the night it be a common thing for the seaman to dip their ship - biscuit into the huge oil - pot and let they fry there awhile . many a good supper have i thus make .
in the case of a small sperm whale the brain be account a fine dish . the casket of the skull be break into with an axe , and the two plump , whitish lob be withdraw ( precisely resemble two large pudding ) , they be then mix with flour , and cook into a most delectable mess , in flavor somewhat resemble calf ' head , which be quite a dish among some epicure ; and every one know that some young buck among the epicure , by continually din upon calf ' brain , by and by get to have a little brain of their own , so as to be able to tell a calf 's head from their own head ; which , indeed , require uncommon discrimination . and that be the reason why a young buck with an intelligent look calf 's head before he , be somehow one of the sad sight you can see . the head look a sort of reproachfully at he , with an " et tu brute ! " expression .
it be not , perhaps , entirely because the whale be so excessively unctuous that landsman seem to regard the eating of he with abhorrence ; that appear to result , in some way , from the consideration before mention : i.e. that a man should eat a newly murder thing of the sea , and eat it too by its own light . but no doubt the first man that ever murder an ox be regard as a murderer ; perhaps he be hung ; and if he have be put on his trial by oxen , he certainly would have be ; and he certainly deserve it if any murderer do . go to the meat - market of a saturday night and see the crowd of live biped star up at the long row of dead quadruped . do not that sight take a tooth out of the cannibal 's jaw ? cannibal ? who be not a cannibal ? i tell you it will be more tolerable for the fejee that salt down a lean missionary in his cellar against a come famine ; it will be more tolerable for that provident fejee , i say , in the day of judgment , than for thee , civilized and enlightened gourmand , who nailest goose to the ground and feastest on their bloated liver in thy pate - de - foie - gra .
but stubb , he eat the whale by its own light , do he ? and that be add insult to injury , be it ? look at your knife - handle , there , my civilized and enlightened gourmand dining off that roast beef , what be that handle make of?--what but the bone of the brother of the very ox you be eat ? and what do you pick your tooth with , after devour that fat goose ? with a feather of the same fowl . and with what quill do the secretary of the society for the suppression of cruelty to gander formally indite his circular ? it be only within the last month or two that that society pass a resolution to patronise nothing but steel pen .
chapter 66
the shark massacre .
when in the southern fishery , a capture sperm whale , after long and weary toil , be bring alongside late at night , it be not , as a general thing at least , customary to proceed at once to the business of cut he in . for that business be an exceedingly laborious one ; be not very soon complete ; and require all hand to set about it . therefore , the common usage be to take in all sail ; lash the helm a'lee ; and then send every one below to his hammock till daylight , with the reservation that , until that time , anchor - watch shall be keep ; that is , two and two for an hour , each couple , the crew in rotation shall mount the deck to see that all go well .
but sometimes , especially upon the line in the pacific , this plan will not answer at all ; because such incalculable host of shark gather round the moor carcase , that be he leave so for six hour , say , on a stretch , little more than the skeleton would be visible by morning . in most other part of the ocean , however , where these fish do not so largely abound , their wondrous voracity can be at time considerably diminish , by vigorously stir they up with sharp whaling - spade , a procedure notwithstanding , which , in some instance , only seem to tickle they into still great activity . but it be not thus in the present case with the pequod 's shark ; though , to be sure , any man unaccustomed to such sight , to have look over her side that night , would have almost think the whole round sea be one huge cheese , and those shark the maggot in it .
nevertheless , upon stubb set the anchor - watch after his supper be conclude ; and when , accordingly , queequeg and a forecastle seaman come on deck , no small excitement be create among the shark ; for immediately suspend the cut stage over the side , and lower three lantern , so that they cast long gleam of light over the turbid sea , these two mariner , dart their long whaling - spade , keep up an incessant murdering of the shark , * by strike the keen steel deep into their skull , seemingly their only vital part . but in the foamy confusion of their mixed and struggle host , the marksman could not always hit their mark ; and this bring about new revelation of the incredible ferocity of the foe . they viciously snap , not only at each other 's disembowelment , but like flexible bow , bent round , and bite their own ; till those entrail seemed swallow over and over again by the same mouth , to be oppositely void by the gap wound . nor be this all . it be unsafe to meddle with the corps and ghost of these creature . a sort of generic or pantheistic vitality seem to lurk in their very joint and bone , after what might be call the individual life have depart . kill and hoist on deck for the sake of his skin , one of these shark almost take poor queequeg 's hand off , when he try to shut down the dead lid of his murderous jaw .
* the whaling - spade use for cutting - in be make of the very good steel ; be about the bigness of a man 's spread hand ; and in general shape , correspond to the garden implement after which it be name ; only its side be perfectly flat , and its upper end considerably narrower than the low . this weapon be always keep as sharp as possible ; and when be use be occasionally hone , just like a razor . in its socket , a stiff pole , from twenty to thirty foot long , be insert for a handle .
" queequeg no care what god make he shark , " say the savage , agonizingly lift his hand up and down ; " wedder fejee god or nantucket god ; but de god wat make shark must be one dam ingin . "
chapter 67
cut in .
it be a saturday night , and such a sabbath as follow ! ex officio professor of sabbath breaking be all whaleman . the ivory pequod be turn into what seem a shamble ; every sailor a butcher . you would have think we be offer up ten thousand red oxen to the sea god .
in the first place , the enormous cutting tackle , among other ponderous thing comprise a cluster of block generally paint green , and which no single man can possibly lift -- this vast bunch of grape be sway up to the main - top and firmly lash to the low mast - head , the strong point anywhere above a ship 's deck . the end of the hawser - like rope wind through these intricacy , be then conduct to the windlass , and the huge low block of the tackle be swing over the whale ; to this block the great blubber hook , weigh some one hundred pound , be attach . and now suspend in stage over the side , starbuck and stubb , the mate , arm with their long spade , begin cut a hole in the body for the insertion of the hook just above the near of the two side - fin . this do , a broad , semicircular line be cut round the hole , the hook be insert , and the main body of the crew strike up a wild chorus , now commence heaving in one dense crowd at the windlass . when instantly , the entire ship careen over on her side ; every bolt in her start like the nail - head of an old house in frosty weather ; she tremble , quiver , and nod she fright mast - head to the sky . more and more she lean over to the whale , while every gasping heave of the windlass be answer by a help heave from the billow ; till at last , a swift , startling snap be hear ; with a great swash the ship roll upwards and backwards from the whale , and the triumphant tackle rise into sight dragging after it the disengage semicircular end of the first strip of blubber . now as the blubber envelop the whale precisely as the rind do an orange , so be it strip off from the body precisely as an orange be sometimes strip by spiralize it . for the strain constantly keep up by the windlass continually keep the whale roll over and over in the water , and as the blubber in one strip uniformly peel off along the line call the " scarf , " simultaneously cut by the spade of starbuck and stubb , the mate ; and just as fast as it be thus peel off , and indeed by that very act itself , it be all the time be hoist higher and higher aloft till its upper end graze the main - top ; the man at the windlass then cease heaving , and for a moment or two the prodigious blood - drip mass sway to and fro as if let down from the sky , and every one present must take good heed to dodge it when it swing , else it may box his ear and pitch he headlong overboard .
one of the attend harpooneer now advance with a long , keen weapon call a boarding - sword , and watch his chance he dexterously slice out a considerable hole in the low part of the sway mass . into this hole , the end of the second alternate great tackle be then hook so as to retain a hold upon the blubber , in order to prepare for what follow . whereupon , this accomplished swordsman , warn all hand to stand off , once more make a scientific dash at the mass , and with a few sidelong , desperate , lunge slicing , sever it completely in twain ; so that while the short low part be still fast , the long upper strip , call a blanket - piece , swing clear , and be all ready for lower . the heaver forward now resume their song , and while the one tackle be peel and hoist a second strip from the whale , the other be slowly slacken away , and down go the first strip through the main hatchway right beneath , into an unfurnished parlor call the blubber - room . into this twilight apartment sundry nimble hand keep coil away the long blanket - piece as if it be a great live mass of plait serpent . and thus the work proceed ; the two tackle hoist and lower simultaneously ; both whale and windlass heaving , the heaver sing , the blubber - room gentleman coil , the mate scarf , the ship strain , and all hand swear occasionally , by way of assuage the general friction .
chapter 68
the blanket .
i have give no small attention to that not unvexed subject , the skin of the whale . i have have controversy about it with experienced whaleman afloat , and learn naturalist ashore . my original opinion remain unchanged ; but it be only an opinion .
the question be , what and where be the skin of the whale ? already you know what his blubber be . that blubber be something of the consistence of firm , close - grain beef , but tough , more elastic and compact , and range from eight or ten to twelve and fifteen inch in thickness .
now , however preposterous it may at first seem to talk of any creature 's skin as be of that sort of consistence and thickness , yet in point of fact these be no argument against such a presumption ; because you can not raise any other dense enveloping layer from the whale 's body but that same blubber ; and the outermost envelop layer of any animal , if reasonably dense , what can that be but the skin ? true , from the unmarred dead body of the whale , you may scrape off with your hand an infinitely thin , transparent substance , somewhat resemble the thin shred of isinglass , only it be almost as flexible and soft as satin ; that be , previous to be dry , when it not only contract and thicken , but become rather hard and brittle . i have several such dried bit , which i use for mark in my whale - book . it be transparent , as i say before ; and be lay upon the print page , i have sometimes please myself with fancy it exert a magnifying influence . at any rate , it be pleasant to read about whale through their own spectacle , as you may say . but what i be drive at here be this . that same infinitely thin , isinglass substance , which , i admit , invest the entire body of the whale , be not so much to be regard as the skin of the creature , as the skin of the skin , so to speak ; for it be simply ridiculous to say , that the proper skin of the tremendous whale be thin and more tender than the skin of a new - bear child . but no more of this .
assume the blubber to be the skin of the whale ; then , when this skin , as in the case of a very large sperm whale , will yield the bulk of one hundred barrel of oil ; and , when it be consider that , in quantity , or rather weight , that oil , in its express state , be only three fourth , and not the entire substance of the coat ; some idea may hence be have of the enormousness of that animate mass , a mere part of whose mere integument yield such a lake of liquid as that . reckon ten barrel to the ton , you have ten ton for the net weight of only three quarter of the stuff of the whale 's skin .
in life , the visible surface of the sperm whale be not the least among the many marvel he present . almost invariably it be all over obliquely cross and re - crossed with numberless straight mark in thick array , something like those in the fine italian line engraving . but these mark do not seem to be impress upon the isinglass substance above mention , but seem to be see through it , as if they be engrave upon the body itself . nor be this all . in some instance , to the quick , observant eye , those linear mark , as in a veritable engraving , but afford the ground for far other delineation . these be hieroglyphical ; that be , if you call those mysterious cypher on the wall of pyramid hieroglyphic , then that be the proper word to use in the present connexion . by my retentive memory of the hieroglyphic upon one sperm whale in particular , i be much strike with a plate represent the old indian character chisel on the famous hieroglyphic palisade on the bank of the upper mississippi . like those mystic rock , too , the mystic - mark whale remain undecipherable . this allusion to the indian rock remind i of another thing . besides all the other phenomenon which the exterior of the sperm whale present , he not seldom display the back , and more especially his flank , efface in great part of the regular linear appearance , by reason of numerous rude scratch , altogether of an irregular , random aspect . i should say that those new england rock on the sea - coast , which agassiz imagine to bear the mark of violent scrap contact with vast float iceberg -- i should say , that those rock must not a little resemble the sperm whale in this particular . it also seem to i that such scratch in the whale be probably make by hostile contact with other whale ; for i have most remark they in the large , full - grow bull of the specie .
a word or two more concern this matter of the skin or blubber of the whale . it have already be say , that it be stript from he in long piece , call blanket - piece . like most sea - term , this one be very happy and significant . for the whale be indeed wrapt up in his blubber as in a real blanket or counterpane ; or , still well , an indian poncho slipt over his head , and skirt his extremity . it be by reason of this cosy blanketing of his body , that the whale be enable to keep himself comfortable in all weather , in all sea , time , and tide . what would become of a greenland whale , say , in those shudder , icy sea of the north , if unsupplie with his cosy surtout ? true , other fish be find exceedingly brisk in those hyperborean water ; but these , be it observe , be your cold - blooded , lungless fish , whose very belly be refrigerator ; creature , that warm themselves under the lee of an iceberg , as a traveller in winter would bask before an inn fire ; whereas , like man , the whale have lung and warm blood . freeze his blood , and he die . how wonderful be it then -- except after explanation -- that this great monster , to whom corporeal warmth be as indispensable as it be to man ; how wonderful that he should be find at home , immerse to his lip for life in those arctic water ! where , when seaman fall overboard , they be sometimes find , month afterwards , perpendicularly freeze into the heart of field of ice , as a fly be find glue in amber . but more surprising be it to know , as have be prove by experiment , that the blood of a polar whale be warm than that of a borneo negro in summer .
it do seem to i , that herein we see the rare virtue of a strong individual vitality , and the rare virtue of thick wall , and the rare virtue of interior spaciousness . oh , man ! admire and model thyself after the whale ! do thou , too , remain warm among ice . do thou , too , live in this world without be of it . be cool at the equator ; keep thy blood fluid at the pole . like the great dome of st. peter 's , and like the great whale , retain , o man ! in all season a temperature of thine own .
but how easy and how hopeless to teach these fine thing ! of erection , how few be dome like st. peter 's ! of creature , how few vast as the whale !
chapter 69
the funeral .
haul in the chain ! let the carcase go astern !
the vast tackle have now do their duty . the peel white body of the behead whale flash like a marble sepulchre ; though change in hue , it have not perceptibly lose anything in bulk . it be still colossal . slowly it float more and more away , the water round it tear and splash by the insatiate shark , and the air above vex with rapacious flight of scream fowl , whose beak be like so many insult poniard in the whale . the vast white headless phantom float far and far from the ship , and every rod that it so float , what seem square rood of shark and cubic rood of fowl , augment the murderous din . for hour and hour from the almost stationary ship that hideous sight be see . beneath the unclouded and mild azure sky , upon the fair face of the pleasant sea , waft by the joyous breeze , that great mass of death float on and on , till lose in infinite perspective .
there be a most doleful and most mocking funeral ! the sea - vulture all in pious mourning , the air - shark all punctiliously in black or speckle . in life but few of they would have help the whale , i ween , if peradventure he have need it ; but upon the banquet of his funeral they most piously do pounce . oh , horrible vultureism of earth ! from which not the mighty whale be free .
nor be this the end . desecrate as the body be , a vengeful ghost survive and hover over it to scare . espy by some timid man - of - war or blunder discovery - vessel from afar , when the distance obscure the swarm fowl , nevertheless still show the white mass float in the sun , and the white spray heave high against it ; straightway the whale 's unharme corpse , with tremble finger be set down in the log -- shoal , rock , and breakers hereabouts : beware ! and for year afterwards , perhaps , ship shun the place ; leap over it as silly sheep leap over a vacuum , because their leader originally leap there when a stick be hold . there be your law of precedent ; there be your utility of tradition ; there be the story of your obstinate survival of old belief never bottom on the earth , and now not even hover in the air ! there be orthodoxy !
thus , while in life the great whale 's body may have be a real terror to his foe , in his death his ghost become a powerless panic to a world .
be you a believer in ghost , my friend ? there be other ghost than the cock - lane one , and far deep man than doctor johnson who believe in they .
chapter 70
the sphynx .
it should not have be omit that previous to completely strip the body of the leviathan , he be behead . now , the beheading of the sperm whale be a scientific anatomical feat , upon which experience whale surgeon very much pride themselves : and not without reason .
consider that the whale have nothing that can properly be call a neck ; on the contrary , where his head and body seem to join , there , in that very place , be the thick part of he . remember , also , that the surgeon must operate from above , some eight or ten foot intervene between he and his subject , and that subject almost hide in a discolour , rolling , and oftentime tumultuous and burst sea . bear in mind , too , that under these untoward circumstance he have to cut many foot deep in the flesh ; and in that subterraneous manner , without so much as get one single peep into the ever - contracting gash thus make , he must skilfully steer clear of all adjacent , interdicted part , and exactly divide the spine at a critical point hard by its insertion into the skull . do you not marvel , then , at stubb 's boast , that he demand but ten minute to behead a sperm whale ?
when first sever , the head be drop astern and hold there by a cable till the body be strip . that do , if it belong to a small whale it be hoist on deck to be deliberately disposed of . but , with a full grow leviathan this be impossible ; for the sperm whale 's head embrace nearly one third of his entire bulk , and completely to suspend such a burden as that , even by the immense tackle of a whaler , this be as vain a thing as to attempt weigh a dutch barn in jeweller ' scale .
the pequod 's whale be decapitate and the body strip , the head be hoist against the ship 's side -- about half way out of the sea , so that it might yet in great part be buoy up by its native element . and there with the strained craft steeply lean over to it , by reason of the enormous downward drag from the low mast - head , and every yard - arm on that side project like a crane over the wave ; there , that blood - drip head hang to the pequod 's waist like the giant holofernes 's from the girdle of judith .
when this last task be accomplish it be noon , and the seaman go below to their dinner . silence reign over the before tumultuous but now deserted deck . an intense copper calm , like a universal yellow lotus , be more and more unfold its noiseless measureless leaf upon the sea .
a short space elapse , and up into this noiselessness come ahab alone from his cabin . take a few turn on the quarter - deck , he pause to gaze over the side , then slowly get into the main - chain he take stubb 's long spade -- still remain there after the whale 's decapitation -- and strike it into the low part of the half - suspend mass , place its other end crutch - wise under one arm , and so stand lean over with eye attentively fix on this head .
it be a black and hooded head ; and hang there in the midst of so intense a calm , it seem the sphynx 's in the desert . " speak , thou vast and venerable head , " mutter ahab , " which , though ungarnishe with a beard , yet here and there lookest hoary with moss ; speak , mighty head , and tell we the secret thing that be in thee . of all diver , thou hast dive the deep . that head upon which the upper sun now gleams , have move amid this world 's foundation . where unrecorded name and navy rust , and untold hope and anchor rot ; where in her murderous hold this frigate earth be ballast with bone of million of the drown ; there , in that awful water - land , there be thy most familiar home . thou hast be where bell or diver never go ; hast sleep by many a sailor 's side , where sleepless mother would give their life to lay they down . thou saw'st the locked lover when leap from their flaming ship ; heart to heart they sink beneath the exult wave ; true to each other , when heaven seem false to they . thou saw'st the murder mate when toss by pirate from the midnight deck ; for hour he fall into the deep midnight of the insatiate maw ; and his murderer still sail on unharmed -- while swift lightning shiver the neighboring ship that would have bear a righteous husband to outstretche , long arm . o head ! thou hast see enough to split the planet and make an infidel of abraham , and not one syllable be thine ! "
" sail ho ! " cry a triumphant voice from the main - mast - head .
" aye ? well , now , that be cheer , " cry ahab , suddenly erect himself , while whole thunder - cloud sweep aside from his brow . " that lively cry upon this deadly calm might almost convert a well man.--where away ? "
" three point on the starboard bow , sir , and bring down her breeze to we !
" well and well , man . would now st. paul would come along that way , and to my breezelessness bring his breeze ! o nature , and o soul of man ! how far beyond all utterance be your link analogy ! not the small atom stir or live on matter , but have its cunning duplicate in mind . "
chapter 71
the jeroboam 's story .
hand in hand , ship and breeze blow on ; but the breeze come fast than the ship , and soon the pequod begin to rock .
by and by , through the glass the stranger 's boat and man mast - head prove she a whale - ship . but as she be so far to windward , and shoot by , apparently make a passage to some other ground , the pequod could not hope to reach she . so the signal be set to see what response would be make .
here be it say , that like the vessel of military marine , the ship of the american whale fleet have each a private signal ; all which signal be collect in a book with the name of the respective vessel attach , every captain be provide with it . thereby , the whale commander be enable to recognise each other upon the ocean , even at considerable distance and with no small facility .
the pequod 's signal be at last respond to by the stranger 's set she own ; which prove the ship to be the jeroboam of nantucket . square her yard , she bear down , range abeam under the pequod 's lee , and lower a boat ; it soon draw nigh ; but , as the side - ladder be be rig by starbuck 's order to accommodate the visit captain , the stranger in question wave his hand from his boat 's stern in token of that proceeding be entirely unnecessary . it turn out that the jeroboam have a malignant epidemic on board , and that mayhew , her captain , be fearful of infect the pequod 's company . for , though himself and boat 's crew remain untainted , and though his ship be half a rifle - shoot off , and an incorruptible sea and air rolling and flow between ; yet conscientiously adhere to the timid quarantine of the land , he peremptorily refuse to come into direct contact with the pequod .
but this do by no mean prevent all communication . preserve an interval of some few yard between itself and the ship , the jeroboam 's boat by the occasional use of its oar contrive to keep parallel to the pequod , as she heavily forge through the sea ( for by this time it blow very fresh ) , with her main - topsail aback ; though , indeed , at time by the sudden onset of a large rolling wave , the boat would be push some way ahead ; but would be soon skilfully bring to her proper bearing again . subject to this , and other the like interruption now and then , a conversation be sustain between the two party ; but at interval not without still another interruption of a very different sort .
pull an oar in the jeroboam 's boat , be a man of a singular appearance , even in that wild whaling life where individual notability make up all totality . he be a small , short , youngish man , sprinkle all over his face with freckle , and wear redundant yellow hair . a long - skirt , cabalistically - cut coat of a faded walnut tinge envelop he ; the overlap sleeve of which be roll up on his wrist . a deep , settle , fanatic delirium be in his eye .
so soon as this figure have be first descry , stubb have exclaimed--"that 's he ! that be he!--the long - tog scaramouch the town - ho 's company tell we of ! " stubb here allude to a strange story tell of the jeroboam , and a certain man among her crew , some time previous when the pequod speak the town - ho . accord to this account and what be subsequently learn , it seem that the scaramouch in question have gain a wonderful ascendency over almost everybody in the jeroboam . his story be this :
he have be originally nurture among the crazy society of neskyeuna shakers , where he have be a great prophet ; in their cracked , secret meeting have several time descend from heaven by the way of a trap - door , announce the speedy opening of the seventh vial , which he carry in his vest - pocket ; but , which , instead of contain gunpowder , be suppose to be charge with laudanum . a strange , apostolic whim having seize he , he have leave neskyeuna for nantucket , where , with that cunning peculiar to craziness , he assume a steady , common - sense exterior , and offer himself as a green - hand candidate for the jeroboam 's whaling voyage . they engage he ; but straightway upon the ship 's get out of sight of land , his insanity break out in a freshet . he announce himself as the archangel gabriel , and command the captain to jump overboard . he publish his manifesto , whereby he set himself forth as the deliverer of the isle of the sea and vicar - general of all oceanica . the unflinche earnestness with which he declare these things;--the dark , dare play of his sleepless , excited imagination , and all the preternatural terror of real delirium , unite to invest this gabriel in the mind of the majority of the ignorant crew , with an atmosphere of sacredness . moreover , they be afraid of he . as such a man , however , be not of much practical use in the ship , especially as he refuse to work except when he please , the incredulous captain would fain have be rid of he ; but apprise that that individual 's intention be to land he in the first convenient port , the archangel forthwith open all his seal and vial -- devote the ship and all hand to unconditional perdition , in case this intention be carry out . so strongly do he work upon his disciple among the crew , that at last in a body they go to the captain and tell he if gabriel be send from the ship , not a man of they would remain . he be therefore force to relinquish his plan . nor would they permit gabriel to be any way maltreat , say or do what he would ; so that it come to pass that gabriel have the complete freedom of the ship . the consequence of all this be , that the archangel care little or nothing for the captain and mate ; and since the epidemic have break out , he carry a high hand than ever ; declare that the plague , as he call it , be at his sole command ; nor should it be stay but accord to his good pleasure . the sailor , mostly poor devil , cringe , and some of they fawn before he ; in obedience to his instruction , sometimes render he personal homage , as to a god . such thing may seem incredible ; but , however wondrous , they be true . nor be the history of fanatic half so strike in respect to the measureless self - deception of the fanatic himself , as his measureless power of deceive and bedevil so many other . but it be time to return to the pequod .
" i fear not thy epidemic , man , " say ahab from the bulwark , to captain mayhew , who stand in the boat 's stern ; " come on board . "
but now gabriel start to his foot .
" think , think of the fever , yellow and bilious ! beware of the horrible plague ! "
" gabriel ! gabriel ! " cry captain mayhew ; " thou must either-- " but that instant a headlong wave shoot the boat far ahead , and its seething drown all speech .
" hast thou see the white whale ? " demand ahab , when the boat drift back .
" think , think of thy whale - boat , stoven and sunk ! beware of the horrible tail ! "
" i tell thee again , gabriel , that-- " but again the boat tear ahead as if drag by fiend . nothing be say for some moment , while a succession of riotous wave roll by , which by one of those occasional caprice of the sea be tumble , not heave it . meantime , the hoist sperm whale 's head jog about very violently , and gabriel be see eye it with rather more apprehensiveness than his archangel nature seem to warrant .
when this interlude be over , captain mayhew begin a dark story concern moby dick ; not , however , without frequent interruption from gabriel , whenever his name be mention , and the crazy sea that seem league with he .
it seem that the jeroboam have not long leave home , when upon speak a whale - ship , her people be reliably apprise of the existence of moby dick , and the havoc he have make . greedily suck in this intelligence , gabriel solemnly warn the captain against attack the white whale , in case the monster should be see ; in his gibber insanity , pronounce the white whale to be no less a being than the shaker god incarnate ; the shaker receive the bible . but when , some year or two afterwards , moby dick be fairly sighted from the mast - head , macey , the chief mate , burn with ardour to encounter he ; and the captain himself be not unwilling to let he have the opportunity , despite all the archangel 's denunciation and forewarning , macey succeed in persuade five man to man his boat . with they he push off ; and , after much weary pulling , and many perilous , unsuccessful onset , he at last succeed in get one iron fast . meantime , gabriel , ascend to the main - royal mast - head , be toss one arm in frantic gesture , and hurl forth prophecy of speedy doom to the sacrilegious assailant of his divinity . now , while macey , the mate , be stand up in his boat 's bow , and with all the reckless energy of his tribe be vent his wild exclamation upon the whale , and essay to get a fair chance for his poised lance , lo ! a broad white shadow rise from the sea ; by its quick , fan motion , temporarily take the breath out of the body of the oarsman . next instant , the luckless mate , so full of furious life , be smite bodily into the air , and make a long arc in his descent , fall into the sea at the distance of about fifty yard . not a chip of the boat be harm , nor a hair of any oarsman 's head ; but the mate for ever sink .
it be well to parenthesize here , that of the fatal accident in the sperm - whale fishery , this kind be perhaps almost as frequent as any . sometimes , nothing be injure but the man who be thus annihilate ; oftener the boat 's bow be knock off , or the thigh - board , in which the headsman stand , be tear from its place and accompany the body . but strange of all be the circumstance , that in more instance than one , when the body have be recover , not a single mark of violence be discernible ; the man be stark dead .
the whole calamity , with the fall form of macey , be plainly descry from the ship . raise a pierce shriek--"the vial ! the vial ! " gabriel call off the terror - stricken crew from the further hunting of the whale . this terrible event clothe the archangel with add influence ; because his credulous disciple believe that he have specifically fore - announce it , instead of only make a general prophecy , which any one might have do , and so have chance to hit one of many mark in the wide margin allow . he become a nameless terror to the ship .
mayhew having conclude his narration , ahab put such question to he , that the stranger captain could not forbear inquire whether he intend to hunt the white whale , if opportunity should offer . to which ahab answered--"aye . " straightway , then , gabriel once more start to his foot , glare upon the old man , and vehemently exclaim , with downward point finger--"think , think of the blasphemer -- dead , and down there!--beware of the blasphemer 's end ! "
ahab stolidly turn aside ; then say to mayhew , " captain , i have just bethought i of my letter - bag ; there be a letter for one of thy officer , if i mistake not . starbuck , look over the bag . "
every whale - ship take out a goodly number of letter for various ship , whose delivery to the person to whom they may be address , depend upon the mere chance of encounter they in the four ocean . thus , most letter never reach their mark ; and many be only receive after attain an age of two or three year or more .
soon starbuck return with a letter in his hand . it be sorely tumble , damp , and cover with a dull , spot , green mould , in consequence of be keep in a dark locker of the cabin . of such a letter , death himself might well have be the post - boy .
" can'st not read it ? " cry ahab . " give it i , man . aye , aye , it be but a dim scrawl;--what be this ? " as he be study it out , starbuck take a long cutting - spade pole , and with his knife slightly split the end , to insert the letter there , and in that way , hand it to the boat , without its come any close to the ship .
meantime , ahab hold the letter , mutter , " mr. har -- yes , mr. harry--(a woman 's pinny hand,--the man 's wife , i will wager)--aye -- mr. harry macey , ship jeroboam;--why it be macey , and he be dead ! "
" poor fellow ! poor fellow ! and from his wife , " sigh mayhew ; " but let i have it . "
" nay , keep it thyself , " cry gabriel to ahab ; " thou art soon go that way . "
" curse throttle thee ! " yell ahab . " captain mayhew , stand by now to receive it " ; and take the fatal missive from starbuck 's hand , he catch it in the slit of the pole , and reach it over towards the boat . but as he do so , the oarsman expectantly desist from row ; the boat drift a little towards the ship 's stern ; so that , as if by magic , the letter suddenly range along with gabriel 's eager hand . he clutch it in an instant , seize the boat - knife , and impale the letter on it , send it thus load back into the ship . it fall at ahab 's foot . then gabriel shriek out to his comrade to give way with their oar , and in that manner the mutinous boat rapidly shoot away from the pequod .
as , after this interlude , the seaman resume their work upon the jacket of the whale , many strange thing be hint in reference to this wild affair .
chapter 72
the monkey - rope .
in the tumultuous business of cutting - in and attend to a whale , there be much run backwards and forwards among the crew . now hand be want here , and then again hand be want there . there be no staying in any one place ; for at one and the same time everything have to be do everywhere . it be much the same with he who endeavor the description of the scene . we must now retrace our way a little . it be mention that upon first break ground in the whale 's back , the blubber - hook be insert into the original hole there cut by the spade of the mate . but how do so clumsy and weighty a mass as that same hook get fix in that hole ? it be insert there by my particular friend queequeg , whose duty it be , as harpooneer , to descend upon the monster 's back for the special purpose refer to . but in very many case , circumstance require that the harpooneer shall remain on the whale till the whole tensing or strip operation be conclude . the whale , be it observe , lie almost entirely submerge , except the immediate part operate upon . so down there , some ten foot below the level of the deck , the poor harpooneer flounder about , half on the whale and half in the water , as the vast mass revolve like a tread - mill beneath he . on the occasion in question , queequeg figure in the highland costume -- a shirt and sock -- in which to my eye , at least , he appear to uncommon advantage ; and no one have a well chance to observe he , as will presently be see .
be the savage 's bowsman , that is , the person who pull the bow - oar in his boat ( the second one from forward ) , it be my cheerful duty to attend upon he while take that hard - scrabble scramble upon the dead whale 's back . you have see italian organ - boy hold a dancing - ape by a long cord . just so , from the ship 's steep side , do i hold queequeg down there in the sea , by what be technically call in the fishery a monkey - rope , attach to a strong strip of canvas belt round his waist .
it be a humorously perilous business for both of we . for , before we proceed far , it must be say that the monkey - rope be fast at both end ; fast to queequeg 's broad canvas belt , and fast to my narrow leather one . so that for well or for bad , we two , for the time , be wed ; and should poor queequeg sink to rise no more , then both usage and honour demand , that instead of cut the cord , it should drag i down in his wake . so , then , an elongate siamese ligature unite we . queequeg be my own inseparable twin brother ; nor could i any way get rid of the dangerous liability which the hempen bond entail .
so strongly and metaphysically do i conceive of my situation then , that while earnestly watch his motion , i seem distinctly to perceive that my own individuality be now merge in a joint stock company of two ; that my free will have receive a mortal wound ; and that another 's mistake or misfortune might plunge innocent i into unmerited disaster and death . therefore , i see that here be a sort of interregnum in providence ; for its even - handed equity never could have so gross an injustice . and yet still far ponder -- while i jerk he now and then from between the whale and ship , which would threaten to jam he -- still far ponder , i say , i see that this situation of mine be the precise situation of every mortal that breathe ; only , in most case , he , one way or other , have this siamese connexion with a plurality of other mortal . if your banker break , you snap ; if your apothecary by mistake send you poison in your pill , you die . true , you may say that , by exceed caution , you may possibly escape these and the multitudinous other evil chance of life . but handle queequeg 's monkey - rope heedfully as i would , sometimes he jerk it so , that i come very near slide overboard . nor could i possibly forget that , do what i would , i only have the management of one end of it . *
* the monkey - rope be find in all whaler ; but it be only in the pequod that the monkey and his holder be ever tie together . this improvement upon the original usage be introduce by no less a man than stubb , in order to afford the imperille harpooneer the strong possible guarantee for the faithfulness and vigilance of his monkey - rope holder .
i have hint that i would often jerk poor queequeg from between the whale and the ship -- where he would occasionally fall , from the incessant rolling and swaying of both . but this be not the only jamming jeopardy he be expose to . unappalle by the massacre make upon they during the night , the shark now freshly and more keenly allure by the before pent blood which begin to flow from the carcass -- the rabid creature swarm round it like bee in a beehive .
and right in among those shark be queequeg ; who often push they aside with his flounder foot . a thing altogether incredible be it not that attract by such prey as a dead whale , the otherwise miscellaneously carnivorous shark will seldom touch a man .
nevertheless , it may well be believe that since they have such a ravenous finger in the pie , it be deem but wise to look sharp to they . accordingly , besides the monkey - rope , with which i now and then jerk the poor fellow from too close a vicinity to the maw of what seem a peculiarly ferocious shark -- he be provide with still another protection . suspend over the side in one of the stage , tashtego and daggoo continually flourish over his head a couple of keen whale - spade , wherewith they slaughter as many shark as they could reach . this procedure of theirs , to be sure , be very disinterested and benevolent of they . they mean queequeg 's good happiness , i admit ; but in their hasty zeal to befriend he , and from the circumstance that both he and the shark be at time half hide by the blood - muddle water , those indiscreet spade of theirs would come near amputate a leg than a tall . but poor queequeg , i suppose , strain and gasp there with that great iron hook -- poor queequeg , i suppose , only pray to his yojo , and give up his life into the hand of his god .
well , well , my dear comrade and twin - brother , think i , as i draw in and then slack off the rope to every swell of the sea -- what matter it , after all ? be you not the precious image of each and all of we man in this whale world ? that unsounded ocean you gasp in , be life ; those shark , your foe ; those spade , your friend ; and what between shark and spade you be in a sad pickle and peril , poor lad .
but courage ! there be good cheer in store for you , queequeg . for now , as with blue lip and blood - shot eye the exhausted savage at last climb up the chain and stand all dripping and involuntarily tremble over the side ; the steward advance , and with a benevolent , consolatory glance hand he -- what ? some hot cognac ? no ! hand he , ye god ! hand he a cup of tepid ginger and water !
" ginger ? do i smell ginger ? " suspiciously ask stubb , come near . " yes , this must be ginger , " peer into the as yet untasted cup . then stand as if incredulous for a while , he calmly walk towards the astonish steward slowly say , " ginger ? ginger ? and will you have the goodness to tell i , mr. dough - boy , where lie the virtue of ginger ? ginger ! be ginger the sort of fuel you use , dough - boy , to kindle a fire in this shiver cannibal ? ginger!--what the devil be ginger?--sea - coal ? firewood?--lucifer matches?--tinder?--gunpowder?--what the devil be ginger , i say , that you offer this cup to our poor queequeg here . "
" there be some sneak temperance society movement about this business , " he suddenly add , now approach starbuck , who have just come from forward . " will you look at that kannakin , sir ; smell of it , if you please . " then watch the mate 's countenance , he add , " the steward , mr. starbuck , have the face to offer that calomel and jalap to queequeg , there , this instant off the whale . be the steward an apothecary , sir ? and may i ask whether this be the sort of bitter by which he blow back the life into a half - drown man ? "
" i trust not , " say starbuck , " it be poor stuff enough . "
" aye , aye , steward , " cry stubb , " we will teach you to drug it harpooneer ; none of your apothecary 's medicine here ; you want to poison we , do ye ? you have get out insurance on our life and want to murder we all , and pocket the proceed , do ye ? "
" it be not i , " cry dough - boy , " it be aunt charity that bring the ginger on board ; and bid i never give the harpooneer any spirit , but only this ginger - jub -- so she call it . "
" ginger - jub ! you gingerly rascal ! take that ! and run along with ye to the locker , and get something well . i hope i do no wrong , mr. starbuck . it be the captain 's order -- grog for the harpooneer on a whale . "
" enough , " reply starbuck , " only do not hit he again , but-- "
" oh , i never hurt when i hit , except when i hit a whale or something of that sort ; and this fellow be a weazel . what be you about say , sir ? "
" only this : go down with he , and get what thou wantest thyself . "
when stubb reappear , he come with a dark flask in one hand , and a sort of tea - caddy in the other . the first contain strong spirit , and be hand to queequeg ; the second be aunt charity 's gift , and that be freely give to the wave .
chapter 73
stubb and flask kill a right whale ; and then have a talk over he .
it must be bear in mind that all this time we have a sperm whale 's prodigious head hang to the pequod 's side . but we must let it continue hang there a while till we can get a chance to attend to it . for the present other matter press , and the good we can do now for the head , be to pray heaven the tackle may hold .
now , during the past night and forenoon , the pequod have gradually drift into a sea , which , by its occasional patch of yellow brit , give unusual token of the vicinity of right whales , a species of the leviathan that but few suppose to be at this particular time lurk anywhere near . and though all hand commonly disdain the capture of those inferior creature ; and though the pequod be not commission to cruise for they at all , and though she have pass number of they near the crozetts without lower a boat ; yet now that a sperm whale have be bring alongside and behead , to the surprise of all , the announcement be make that a right whale should be capture that day , if opportunity offer .
nor be this long wanting . tall spout be see to leeward ; and two boat , stubb 's and flask 's , be detach in pursuit . pull far and far away , they at last become almost invisible to the man at the mast - head . but suddenly in the distance , they see a great heap of tumultuous white water , and soon after news come from aloft that one or both the boat must be fast . an interval pass and the boat be in plain sight , in the act of be drag right towards the ship by the tow whale . so close do the monster come to the hull , that at first it seem as if he mean it malice ; but suddenly go down in a maelstrom , within three rod of the plank , he wholly disappear from view , as if dive under the keel . " cut , cut ! " be the cry from the ship to the boat , which , for one instant , seem on the point of be bring with a deadly dash against the vessel 's side . but have plenty of line yet in the tub , and the whale not sound very rapidly , they pay out abundance of rope , and at the same time pull with all their might so as to get ahead of the ship . for a few minute the struggle be intensely critical ; for while they still slack out the tightened line in one direction , and still ply their oar in another , the contending strain threaten to take they under . but it be only a few foot advance they seek to gain . and they stick to it till they do gain it ; when instantly , a swift tremor be feel run like lightning along the keel , as the strained line , scrap beneath the ship , suddenly rise to view under her bow , snap and quivering ; and so fling off its dripping , that the drop fall like bit of broken glass on the water , while the whale beyond also rise to sight , and once more the boat be free to fly . but the fagged whale abate his speed , and blindly alter his course , go round the stern of the ship tow the two boat after he , so that they perform a complete circuit .
meantime , they haul more and more upon their line , till close flank he on both side , stubb answer flask with lance for lance ; and thus round and round the pequod the battle go , while the multitude of shark that have before swum round the sperm whale 's body , rush to the fresh blood that be spill , thirstily drink at every new gash , as the eager israelites do at the new bursting fountain that pour from the smite rock .
at last his spout grow thick , and with a frightful roll and vomit , he turn upon his back a corpse .
while the two headsman be engage in make fast cord to his fluke , and in other way get the mass in readiness for tow , some conversation ensue between they .
" i wonder what the old man want with this lump of foul lard , " say stubb , not without some disgust at the thought of have to do with so ignoble a leviathan .
" want with it ? " say flask , coil some spare line in the boat 's bow , " do you never hear that the ship which but once have a sperm whale 's head hoist on her starboard side , and at the same time a right whale 's on the larboard ; do you never hear , stubb , that that ship can never afterwards capsize ? "
" why not ?
" i do not know , but i hear that gamboge ghost of a fedallah saying so , and he seem to know all about ship ' charm . but i sometimes think he will charm the ship to no good at last . i do not half like that chap , stubb . do you ever notice how that tusk of his be a sort of carve into a snake 's head , stubb ? "
" sink he ! i never look at he at all ; but if ever i get a chance of a dark night , and he stand hard by the bulwark , and no one by ; look down there , flask"--pointe into the sea with a peculiar motion of both hands--"aye , will i ! flask , i take that fedallah to be the devil in disguise . do you believe that cock and bull story about his having be stow away on board ship ? he be the devil , i say . the reason why you do not see his tail , be because he tuck it up out of sight ; he carry it coil away in his pocket , i guess . blast he ! now that i think of it , he be always want oakum to stuff into the toe of his boot . "
" he sleep in his boot , do not he ? he have not get any hammock ; but i have see he lay of night in a coil of rigging . "
" no doubt , and it be because of his cursed tail ; he coil it down , do ye see , in the eye of the rigging . "
" what be the old man have so much to do with he for ? "
" strike up a swap or a bargain , i suppose . "
" bargain?--about what ? "
" why , do ye see , the old man be hard bent after that white whale , and the devil there be try to come round he , and get he to swap away his silver watch , or his soul , or something of that sort , and then he will surrender moby dick . "
" pooh ! stubb , you be skylark ; how can fedallah do that ? "
" i do not know , flask , but the devil be a curious chap , and a wicked one , i tell ye . why , they say as how he go a sauntering into the old flag - ship once , switch his tail about devilish easy and gentlemanlike , and inquire if the old governor be at home . well , he be at home , and ask the devil what he want . the devil , switch his hoof , up and say , ' i want john . ' ' what for ? ' say the old governor . ' what business be that of your , ' say the devil , get mad,--'i want to use he . ' ' take he , ' say the governor -- and by the lord , flask , if the devil do not give john the asiatic cholera before he get through with he , i will eat this whale in one mouthful . but look sharp -- ain't you all ready there ? well , then , pull ahead , and let us get the whale alongside . "
" i think i remember some such story as you be tell , " say flask , when at last the two boat be slowly advance with their burden towards the ship , " but i can not remember where . "
" three spaniards ? adventure of those three bloody - minded soladoe ? do ye read it there , flask ? i guess ye do ? "
" no : never see such a book ; hear of it , though . but now , tell i , stubb , do you suppose that that devil you be speak of just now , be the same you say be now on board the pequod ? "
" be i the same man that help kill this whale ? do not the devil live for ever ; who ever hear that the devil be dead ? do you ever see any parson a wear mourning for the devil ? and if the devil have a latch - key to get into the admiral 's cabin , do not you suppose he can crawl into a porthole ? tell i that , mr. flask ? "
" how old do you suppose fedallah be , stubb ? "
" do you see that mainmast there ? " point to the ship ; " well , that be the figure one ; now take all the hoop in the pequod 's hold , and string along in a row with that mast , for ought , do you see ; well , that would not begin to be fedallah 's age . nor all the cooper in creation could not show hoop enough to make ought enough . "
" but see here , stubb , i think you a little boasted just now , that you mean to give fedallah a sea - toss , if you get a good chance . now , if he be so old as all those hoop of yours come to , and if he be go to live for ever , what good will it do to pitch he overboard -- tell i that ?
" give he a good ducking , anyhow . "
" but he would crawl back . "
" duck he again ; and keep duck he . "
" suppose he should take it into his head to duck you , though -- yes , and drown you -- what then ? "
" i should like to see he try it ; i would give he such a pair of black eye that he would not dare to show his face in the admiral 's cabin again for a long while , let alone down in the orlop there , where he live , and hereabout on the upper deck where he sneak so much . damn the devil , flask ; so you suppose i be afraid of the devil ? who be afraid of he , except the old governor who daresn't catch he and put he in double - darbie , as he deserve , but let he go about kidnap people ; aye , and sign a bond with he , that all the people the devil kidnap , he would roast for he ? there be a governor ! "
" do you suppose fedallah want to kidnap captain ahab ? "
" do i suppose it ? you will know it before long , flask . but i be go now to keep a sharp look - out on he ; and if i see anything very suspicious go on , i will just take he by the nape of his neck , and say -- look here , beelzebub , you do not do it ; and if he make any fuss , by the lord i will make a grab into his pocket for his tail , take it to the capstan , and give he such a wrenching and heaving , that his tail will come short off at the stump -- do you see ; and then , i rather guess when he find himself dock in that queer fashion , he will sneak off without the poor satisfaction of feel his tail between his leg . "
" and what will you do with the tail , stubb ? "
" do with it ? sell it for an ox whip when we get home;--what else ? "
" now , do you mean what you say , and have be say all along , stubb ? "
" mean or not mean , here we be at the ship . "
the boat be here hail , to tow the whale on the larboard side , where fluke chain and other necessary be already prepare for secure he .
" do not i tell you so ? " say flask ; " yes , you will soon see this right whale 's head hoist up opposite that parmacetti 's . "
in good time , flask 's say prove true . as before , the pequod steeply lean over towards the sperm whale 's head , now , by the counterpoise of both head , she regain she even keel ; though sorely strain , you may well believe . so , when on one side you hoist in locke 's head , you go over that way ; but now , on the other side , hoist in kant 's and you come back again ; but in very poor plight . thus , some mind for ever keep trim boat . oh , ye foolish ! throw all these thunder - head overboard , and then you will float light and right .
in dispose of the body of a right whale , when bring alongside the ship , the same preliminary proceeding commonly take place as in the case of a sperm whale ; only , in the latter instance , the head be cut off whole , but in the former the lip and tongue be separately remove and hoist on deck , with all the well know black bone attach to what be call the crown - piece . but nothing like this , in the present case , have be do . the carcase of both whale have drop astern ; and the head - laden ship not a little resemble a mule carry a pair of overburden pannier .
meantime , fedallah be calmly eye the right whale 's head , and ever and anon glancing from the deep wrinkle there to the line in his own hand . and ahab chance so to stand , that the parsee occupy his shadow ; while , if the parsee 's shadow be there at all it seem only to blend with , and lengthen ahab 's . as the crew toil on , laplandish speculation be bandy among they , concern all these pass thing .
chapter 74
the sperm whale 's head -- contrast view .
here , now , be two great whale , lay their head together ; let we join they , and lie together our own .
of the grand order of folio leviathan , the sperm whale and the right whale be by far the most noteworthy . they be the only whale regularly hunt by man . to the nantucketer , they present the two extreme of all the known variety of the whale . as the external difference between they be mainly observable in their head ; and as a head of each be this moment hang from the pequod 's side ; and as we may freely go from one to the other , by merely step across the deck:--where , i should like to know , will you obtain a well chance to study practical cetology than here ?
in the first place , you be strike by the general contrast between these head . both be massive enough in all conscience ; but there be a certain mathematical symmetry in the sperm whale 's which the right whale 's sadly lack . there be more character in the sperm whale 's head . as you behold it , you involuntarily yield the immense superiority to he , in point of pervade dignity . in the present instance , too , this dignity be heighten by the pepper and salt colour of his head at the summit , give token of advanced age and large experience . in short , he be what the fisherman technically call a " grey - head whale . "
let we now note what be least dissimilar in these head -- namely , the two most important organ , the eye and the ear . far back on the side of the head , and low down , near the angle of either whale 's jaw , if you narrowly search , you will at last see a lashless eye , which you would fancy to be a young colt 's eye ; so out of all proportion be it to the magnitude of the head .
now , from this peculiar sideway position of the whale 's eye , it be plain that he can never see an object which be exactly ahead , no more than he can one exactly astern . in a word , the position of the whale 's eye correspond to that of a man 's ear ; and you may fancy , for yourself , how it would fare with you , do you sideways survey object through your ear . you would find that you could only command some thirty degree of vision in advance of the straight side - line of sight ; and about thirty more behind it . if your bitter foe be walk straight towards you , with dagger uplifted in broad day , you would not be able to see he , any more than if he be steal upon you from behind . in a word , you would have two back , so to speak ; but , at the same time , also , two front ( side front ): for what be it that make the front of a man -- what , indeed , but his eye ?
moreover , while in most other animal that i can now think of , the eye be so plant as imperceptibly to blend their visual power , so as to produce one picture and not two to the brain ; the peculiar position of the whale 's eye , effectually divide as they be by many cubic foot of solid head , which tower between they like a great mountain separate two lake in valley ; this , of course , must wholly separate the impression which each independent organ impart . the whale , therefore , must see one distinct picture on this side , and another distinct picture on that side ; while all between must be profound darkness and nothingness to he . man may , in effect , be say to look out on the world from a sentry - box with two joined sash for his window . but with the whale , these two sash be separately insert , make two distinct window , but sadly impair the view . this peculiarity of the whale 's eye be a thing always to be bear in mind in the fishery ; and to be remember by the reader in some subsequent scene .
a curious and most puzzling question might be start concern this visual matter as touch the leviathan . but i must be content with a hint . so long as a man 's eye be open in the light , the act of seeing be involuntary ; that is , he can not then help mechanically see whatever object be before he . nevertheless , any one 's experience will teach he , that though he can take in an undiscriminating sweep of thing at one glance , it be quite impossible for he , attentively , and completely , to examine any two thing -- however large or however small -- at one and the same instant of time ; never mind if they lie side by side and touch each other . but if you now come to separate these two object , and surround each by a circle of profound darkness ; then , in order to see one of they , in such a manner as to bring your mind to bear on it , the other will be utterly exclude from your contemporary consciousness . how be it , then , with the whale ? true , both his eye , in themselves , must simultaneously act ; but be his brain so much more comprehensive , combine , and subtle than man 's , that he can at the same moment of time attentively examine two distinct prospect , one on one side of he , and the other in an exactly opposite direction ? if he can , then be it as marvellous a thing in he , as if a man be able simultaneously to go through the demonstration of two distinct problem in euclid . nor , strictly investigate , be there any incongruity in this comparison .
it may be but an idle whim , but it have always seem to i , that the extraordinary vacillation of movement display by some whale when beset by three or four boat ; the timidity and liability to queer fright , so common to such whale ; i think that all this indirectly proceed from the helpless perplexity of volition , in which their divide and diametrically opposite power of vision must involve they .
but the ear of the whale be full as curious as the eye . if you be an entire stranger to their race , you might hunt over these two head for hour , and never discover that organ . the ear have no external leaf whatever ; and into the hole itself you can hardly insert a quill , so wondrously minute be it . it be lodge a little behind the eye . with respect to their ear , this important difference be to be observe between the sperm whale and the right . while the ear of the former have an external opening , that of the latter be entirely and evenly cover over with a membrane , so as to be quite imperceptible from without .
be it not curious , that so vast a being as the whale should see the world through so small an eye , and hear the thunder through an ear which be small than a hare 's ? but if his eye be broad as the lens of herschel 's great telescope ; and his ear capacious as the porch of cathedral ; would that make he any long of sight , or sharp of hearing ? not at all.--why then do you try to " enlarge " your mind ? subtilize it .
let we now with whatever lever and steam - engine we have at hand , can not over the sperm whale 's head , that it may lie bottom up ; then , ascend by a ladder to the summit , have a peep down the mouth ; and be it not that the body be now completely separate from it , with a lantern we might descend into the great kentucky mammoth cave of his stomach . but let we hold on here by this tooth , and look about we where we be . what a really beautiful and chaste - look mouth ! from floor to ceiling , line , or rather paper with a glisten white membrane , glossy as bridal satin .
but come out now , and look at this portentous low jaw , which seem like the long narrow lid of an immense snuff - box , with the hinge at one end , instead of one side . if you pry it up , so as to get it overhead , and expose its row of tooth , it seem a terrific portculli ; and such , alas ! it prove to many a poor wight in the fishery , upon whom these spike fall with impaling force . but far more terrible be it to behold , when fathom down in the sea , you see some sulky whale , float there suspend , with his prodigious jaw , some fifteen foot long , hang straight down at right - angle with his body , for all the world like a ship 's jib - boom . this whale be not dead ; he be only dispirit ; out of sort , perhaps ; hypochondriac ; and so supine , that the hinge of his jaw have relax , leave he there in that ungainly sort of plight , a reproach to all his tribe , who must , no doubt , imprecate lock - jaw upon he .
in most case this low jaw -- be easily unhinge by a practised artist -- be disengage and hoist on deck for the purpose of extract the ivory tooth , and furnish a supply of that hard white whalebone with which the fisherman fashion all sort of curious article , include cane , umbrella - stock , and handle to riding - whip .
with a long , weary hoist the jaw be drag on board , as if it be an anchor ; and when the proper time come -- some few day after the other work -- queequeg , daggoo , and tashtego , be all accomplish dentist , be set to draw tooth . with a keen cutting - spade , queequeg lance the gum ; then the jaw be lash down to ringbolt , and a tackle be rig from aloft , they drag out these tooth , as michigan oxen drag stump of old oak out of wild wood land . there be generally forty - two tooth in all ; in old whale , much wear down , but undecayed ; nor fill after our artificial fashion . the jaw be afterwards saw into slab , and pile away like joist for building house .
chapter 75
the right whale 's head -- contrast view .
cross the deck , let we now have a good long look at the right whale 's head .
as in general shape the noble sperm whale 's head may be compare to a roman war - chariot ( especially in front , where it be so broadly rounded ) ; so , at a broad view , the right whale 's head bear a rather inelegant resemblance to a gigantic galliot - toed shoe . two hundred year ago an old dutch voyager liken its shape to that of a shoemaker 's last . and in this same last or shoe , that old woman of the nursery tale , with the swarm brood , might very comfortably be lodge , she and all her progeny .
but as you come near to this great head it begin to assume different aspect , accord to your point of view . if you stand on its summit and look at these two f - shape spouthole , you would take the whole head for an enormous bass - viol , and these spiracle , the aperture in its sounding - board . then , again , if you fix your eye upon this strange , crested , comb - like incrustation on the top of the mass -- this green , barnacle thing , which the greenlanders call the " crown , " and the southern fisher the " bonnet " of the right whale ; fix your eye solely on this , you would take the head for the trunk of some huge oak , with a bird 's nest in its crotch . at any rate , when you watch those live crab that nestle here on this bonnet , such an idea will be almost sure to occur to you ; unless , indeed , your fancy have be fix by the technical term " crown " also bestow upon it ; in which case you will take great interest in think how this mighty monster be actually a diademed king of the sea , whose green crown have be put together for he in this marvellous manner . but if this whale be a king , he be a very sulky look fellow to grace a diadem . look at that hang low lip ! what a huge sulk and pout be there ! a sulk and pout , by carpenter 's measurement , about twenty foot long and five foot deep ; a sulk and pout that will yield you some 500 gallon of oil and more .
a great pity , now , that this unfortunate whale should be hare - lipped . the fissure be about a foot across . probably the mother during an important interval be sail down the peruvian coast , when earthquake cause the beach to gape . over this lip , as over a slippery threshold , we now slide into the mouth . upon my word be i at mackinaw , i should take this to be the inside of an indian wigwam . good lord ! be this the road that jonah go ? the roof be about twelve foot high , and run to a pretty sharp angle , as if there be a regular ridge - pole there ; while these rib , arch , hairy side , present we with those wondrous , half vertical , scimetar - shape slat of whalebone , say three hundred on a side , which depend from the upper part of the head or crown bone , form those venetian blind which have elsewhere be cursorily mention . the edge of these bone be fringe with hairy fibre , through which the right whale strain the water , and in whose intricacy he retain the small fish , when openmouthe he go through the sea of brit in feeding time . in the central blind of bone , as they stand in their natural order , there be certain curious mark , curve , hollow , and ridge , whereby some whaleman calculate the creature 's age , as the age of an oak by its circular ring . though the certainty of this criterion be far from demonstrable , yet it have the savor of analogical probability . at any rate , if we yield to it , we must grant a far great age to the right whale than at first glance will seem reasonable .
in old time , there seem to have prevail the most curious fancy concern these blind . one voyager in purchas call they the wondrous " whisker " inside of the whale 's mouth ; * another , " hog ' bristle " ; a third old gentleman in hackluyt use the follow elegant language : " there be about two hundred and fifty fin grow on each side of his upper chop , which arch over his tongue on each side of his mouth . "
* this remind we that the right whale really have a sort of whisker , or rather a moustache , consist of a few scatter white hair on the upper part of the outer end of the low jaw . sometimes these tuft impart a rather brigandish expression to his otherwise solemn countenance .
as every one know , these same " hog ' bristle , " " fin , " " whisker , " " blind , " or whatever you please , furnish to the lady their busk and other stiffening contrivance . but in this particular , the demand have long be on the decline . it be in queen anne 's time that the bone be in its glory , the farthingale be then all the fashion . and as those ancient dame move about gaily , though in the jaw of the whale , as you may say ; even so , in a shower , with the like thoughtlessness , do we nowadays fly under the same jaw for protection ; the umbrella be a tent spread over the same bone .
but now forget all about blind and whisker for a moment , and , stand in the right whale 's mouth , look around you afresh . see all these colonnade of bone so methodically range about , would you not think you be inside of the great haarlem organ , and gaze upon its thousand pipe ? for a carpet to the organ we have a rug of the soft turkey -- the tongue , which be glue , as it be , to the floor of the mouth . it be very fat and tender , and apt to tear in piece in hoist it on deck . this particular tongue now before we ; at a pass glance i should say it be a six - barreler ; that is , it will yield you about that amount of oil .
ere this , you must have plainly see the truth of what i start with -- that the sperm whale and the right whale have almost entirely different head . to sum up , then : in the right whale 's there be no great well of sperm ; no ivory tooth at all ; no long , slender mandible of a low jaw , like the sperm whale 's . nor in the sperm whale be there any of those blind of bone ; no huge low lip ; and scarcely anything of a tongue . again , the right whale have two external spout - hole , the sperm whale only one .
look your last , now , on these venerable hooded head , while they yet lie together ; for one will soon sink , unrecorded , in the sea ; the other will not be very long in follow .
can you catch the expression of the sperm whale 's there ? it be the same he die with , only some of the long wrinkle in the forehead seem now fade away . i think his broad brow to be full of a prairie - like placidity , bear of a speculative indifference as to death . but mark the other head 's expression . see that amazing low lip , press by accident against the vessel 's side , so as firmly to embrace the jaw . do not this whole head seem to speak of an enormous practical resolution in face death ? this right whale i take to have be a stoic ; the sperm whale , a platonian , who might have take up spinoza in his latter year .
chapter 76
the battering - ram .
ere quitting , for the nonce , the sperm whale 's head , i would have you , as a sensible physiologist , simply -- particularly remark its front aspect , in all its compact collectedness . i would have you investigate it now with the sole view of form to yourself some unexaggerated , intelligent estimate of whatever battering - ram power may be lodge there . here be a vital point ; for you must either satisfactorily settle this matter with yourself , or for ever remain an infidel as to one of the most appalling , but not the less true event , perhaps anywhere to be find in all record history .
you observe that in the ordinary swimming position of the sperm whale , the front of his head present an almost wholly vertical plane to the water ; you observe that the low part of that front slope considerably backwards , so as to furnish more of a retreat for the long socket which receive the boom - like low jaw ; you observe that the mouth be entirely under the head , much in the same way , indeed , as though your own mouth be entirely under your chin . moreover you observe that the whale have no external nose ; and that what nose he have -- his spout hole -- be on the top of his head ; you observe that his eye and ear be at the side of his head , nearly one third of his entire length from the front . wherefore , you must now have perceive that the front of the sperm whale 's head be a dead , blind wall , without a single organ or tender prominence of any sort whatsoever . furthermore , you be now to consider that only in the extreme , low , backward slop part of the front of the head , be there the slight vestige of bone ; and not till you get near twenty foot from the forehead do you come to the full cranial development . so that this whole enormous boneless mass be as one wad . finally , though , as will soon be reveal , its content partly comprise the most delicate oil ; yet , you be now to be apprise of the nature of the substance which so impregnably invest all that apparent effeminacy . in some previous place i have describe to you how the blubber wrap the body of the whale , as the rind wrap an orange . just so with the head ; but with this difference : about the head this envelope , though not so thick , be of a boneless toughness , inestimable by any man who have not handle it . the severe pointed harpoon , the sharp lance dart by the strong human arm , impotently rebound from it . it be as though the forehead of the sperm whale be pave with horse ' hoof . i do not think that any sensation lurk in it .
bethink yourself also of another thing . when two large , loaded indiamen chance to crowd and crush towards each other in the dock , what do the sailor do ? they do not suspend between they , at the point of come contact , any merely hard substance , like iron or wood . no , they hold there a large , round wad of tow and cork , envelop in the thickest and tough of ox - hide . that bravely and uninjured take the jam which would have snap all their oaken handspike and iron crow - bar . by itself this sufficiently illustrate the obvious fact i drive at . but supplementary to this , it have hypothetically occur to i , that as ordinary fish possess what be call a swimming bladder in they , capable , at will , of distension or contraction ; and as the sperm whale , as far as i know , have no such provision in he ; consider , too , the otherwise inexplicable manner in which he now depress his head altogether beneath the surface , and anon swim with it high elevate out of the water ; consider the unobstructed elasticity of its envelope ; consider the unique interior of his head ; it have hypothetically occur to i , i say , that those mystical lung - celle honeycomb there may possibly have some hitherto unknown and unsuspected connexion with the outer air , so as to be susceptible to atmospheric distension and contraction . if this be so , fancy the irresistibleness of that might , to which the most impalpable and destructive of all element contribute .
now , mark . unerringly impel this dead , impregnable , uninjurable wall , and this most buoyant thing within ; there swim behind it all a mass of tremendous life , only to be adequately estimate as pile wood be -- by the cord ; and all obedient to one volition , as the small insect . so that when i shall hereafter detail to you all the speciality and concentration of potency everywhere lurk in this expansive monster ; when i shall show you some of his more inconsiderable braining feat ; i trust you will have renounce all ignorant incredulity , and be ready to abide by this ; that though the sperm whale stove a passage through the isthmus of darien , and mix the atlantic with the pacific , you would not elevate one hair of your eye - brow . for unless you own the whale , you be but a provincial and sentimentalist in truth . but clear truth be a thing for salamander giant only to encounter ; how small the chance for the provincial then ? what befall the weakle youth lift the dread goddess 's veil at lais ?
chapter 77
the great heidelburgh tun .
now come the baling of the case . but to comprehend it aright , you must know something of the curious internal structure of the thing operate upon .
regard the sperm whale 's head as a solid oblong , you may , on an inclined plane , sideways divide it into two quoin , * whereof the low be the bony structure , form the cranium and jaw , and the upper an unctuous mass wholly free from bone ; its broad forward end form the expand vertical apparent forehead of the whale . at the middle of the forehead horizontally subdivide this upper quoin , and then you have two almost equal part , which before be naturally divide by an internal wall of a thick tendinous substance .
* quoin be not a euclidean term . it belong to the pure nautical mathematic . i know not that it have be define before . a quoin be a solid which differ from a wedge in have its sharp end form by the steep inclination of one side , instead of the mutual tapering of both side .
the lower subdivide part , call the junk , be one immense honeycomb of oil , form by the crossing and recrossing , into ten thousand infiltrate cell , of tough elastic white fibre throughout its whole extent . the upper part , know as the case , may be regard as the great heidelburgh tun of the sperm whale . and as that famous great tierce be mystically carve in front , so the whale 's vast plait forehead form innumerable strange device for the emblematical adornment of his wondrous tun . moreover , as that of heidelburgh be always replenish with the most excellent of the wine of the rhenish valley , so the tun of the whale contain by far the most precious of all his oily vintage ; namely , the highly - prize spermaceti , in its absolutely pure , limpid , and odoriferous state . nor be this precious substance find unalloye in any other part of the creature . though in life it remain perfectly fluid , yet , upon exposure to the air , after death , it soon begin to concrete ; send forth beautiful crystalline shoot , as when the first thin delicate ice be just form in water . a large whale 's case generally yield about five hundred gallon of sperm , though from unavoidable circumstance , considerable of it be spill , leak , and dribble away , or be otherwise irrevocably lose in the ticklish business of secure what you can .
i know not with what fine and costly material the heidelburgh tun be coat within , but in superlative richness that coating could not possibly have compare with the silken pearl - colour membrane , like the lining of a fine pelisse , form the inner surface of the sperm whale 's case .
it will have be see that the heidelburgh tun of the sperm whale embrace the entire length of the entire top of the head ; and since -- as have be elsewhere set forth -- the head embrace one third of the whole length of the creature , then set that length down at eighty foot for a good sized whale , you have more than twenty - six foot for the depth of the tun , when it be lengthwise hoist up and down against a ship 's side .
as in decapitate the whale , the operator 's instrument be bring close to the spot where an entrance be subsequently force into the spermaceti magazine ; he have , therefore , to be uncommonly heedful , lest a careless , untimely stroke should invade the sanctuary and wastingly let out its invaluable content . it be this decapitated end of the head , also , which be at last elevate out of the water , and retain in that position by the enormous cutting tackle , whose hempen combination , on one side , make quite a wilderness of rope in that quarter .
thus much being say , attend now , i pray you , to that marvellous and -- in this particular instance -- almost fatal operation whereby the sperm whale 's great heidelburgh tun be tap .
chapter 78
cistern and bucket .
nimble as a cat , tashtego mount aloft ; and without alter his erect posture , run straight out upon the overhang mainyard - arm , to the part where it exactly project over the hoist tun . he have carry with he a light tackle call a whip , consist of only two part , travel through a single - sheave block . secure this block , so that it hang down from the yard - arm , he swing one end of the rope , till it be catch and firmly hold by a hand on deck . then , hand - over - hand , down the other part , the indian drop through the air , till dexterously he land on the summit of the head . there -- still high elevate above the rest of the company , to whom he vivaciously cry -- he seem some turkish muezzin call the good people to prayer from the top of a tower . a short - handle sharp spade be send up to he , he diligently search for the proper place to begin break into the tun . in this business he proceed very heedfully , like a treasure - hunter in some old house , sound the wall to find where the gold be masone in . by the time this cautious search be over , a stout iron - bind bucket , precisely like a well - bucket , have be attach to one end of the whip ; while the other end , be stretch across the deck , be there hold by two or three alert hand . these last now hoist the bucket within grasp of the indian , to whom another person have reach up a very long pole . insert this pole into the bucket , tashtego downward guide the bucket into the tun , till it entirely disappear ; then give the word to the seaman at the whip , up come the bucket again , all bubble like a dairy - maid 's pail of new milk . carefully lower from its height , the full - freight vessel be catch by an appoint hand , and quickly empty into a large tub . then remounting aloft , it again go through the same round until the deep cistern will yield no more . towards the end , tashtego have to ram his long pole hard and hard , and deep and deep into the tun , until some twenty foot of the pole have go down .
now , the people of the pequod have be bale some time in this way ; several tub have be fill with the fragrant sperm ; when all at once a queer accident happen . whether it be that tashtego , that wild indian , be so heedless and reckless as to let go for a moment his one - handed hold on the great cable tackle suspend the head ; or whether the place where he stand be so treacherous and oozy ; or whether the evil one himself would have it to fall out so , without state his particular reason ; how it be exactly , there be no telling now ; but , on a sudden , as the eightieth or ninetieth bucket come suckingly up -- my god ! poor tashtego -- like the twin reciprocate bucket in a veritable well , drop head - foremost down into this great tun of heidelburgh , and with a horrible oily gurgling , go clean out of sight !
" man overboard ! " cry daggoo , who amid the general consternation first come to his sens . " swing the bucket this way ! " and put one foot into it , so as the well to secure his slippery hand - hold on the whip itself , the hoister run he high up to the top of the head , almost before tashtego could have reach its interior bottom . meantime , there be a terrible tumult . look over the side , they see the before lifeless head throb and heave just below the surface of the sea , as if that moment seize with some momentous idea ; whereas it be only the poor indian unconsciously reveal by those struggle the perilous depth to which he have sink .
at this instant , while daggoo , on the summit of the head , be clear the whip -- which have somehow get foul of the great cutting tackle -- a sharp crack noise be hear ; and to the unspeakable horror of all , one of the two enormous hook suspend the head tear out , and with a vast vibration the enormous mass sideways swung , till the drunk ship reel and shake as if smite by an iceberg . the one remain hook , upon which the entire strain now depend , seem every instant to be on the point of give way ; an event still more likely from the violent motion of the head .
" come down , come down ! " yell the seaman to daggoo , but with one hand hold on to the heavy tackle , so that if the head should drop , he would still remain suspend ; the negro having clear the foul line , ram down the bucket into the now collapse well , mean that the bury harpooneer should grasp it , and so be hoist out .
" in heaven 's name , man , " cry stubb , " be you ram home a cartridge there?--avast ! how will that help he ; jam that iron - bind bucket on top of his head ? avast , will ye ! "
" stand clear of the tackle ! " cry a voice like the bursting of a rocket .
almost in the same instant , with a thunder - boom , the enormous mass drop into the sea , like niagara 's table - rock into the whirlpool ; the suddenly relieve hull roll away from it , to far down her glitter copper ; and all catch their breath , as half swing -- now over the sailor ' head , and now over the water -- daggoo , through a thick mist of spray , be dimly beheld cling to the pendulous tackle , while poor , bury - alive tashtego be sink utterly down to the bottom of the sea ! but hardly have the blind vapour clear away , when a naked figure with a boarding - sword in his hand , be for one swift moment see hover over the bulwark . the next , a loud splash announce that my brave queequeg have dive to the rescue . one pack rush be make to the side , and every eye count every ripple , as moment follow moment , and no sign of either the sinker or the diver could be see . some hand now jump into a boat alongside , and push a little off from the ship .
" ha ! ha ! " cry daggoo , all at once , from his now quiet , swing perch overhead ; and look far off from the side , we see an arm thrust upright from the blue wave ; a sight strange to see , as an arm thrust forth from the grass over a grave .
" both ! both!--it be both!"--crie daggoo again with a joyful shout ; and soon after , queequeg be see boldly strike out with one hand , and with the other clutch the long hair of the indian . draw into the waiting boat , they be quickly bring to the deck ; but tashtego be long in come to , and queequeg do not look very brisk .
now , how have this noble rescue be accomplish ? why , diving after the slowly descend head , queequeg with his keen sword have make side lunge near its bottom , so as to scuttle a large hole there ; then drop his sword , have thrust his long arm far inward and upwards , and so haul out poor tash by the head . he aver , that upon first thrust in for he , a leg be present ; but well know that that be not as it ought to be , and might occasion great trouble;--he have thrust back the leg , and by a dexterous heave and toss , have work a somerset upon the indian ; so that with the next trial , he come forth in the good old way -- head foremost . as for the great head itself , that be do as well as could be expect .
and thus , through the courage and great skill in obstetric of queequeg , the deliverance , or rather , delivery of tashtego , be successfully accomplish , in the tooth , too , of the most untoward and apparently hopeless impediment ; which be a lesson by no mean to be forget . midwifery should be teach in the same course with fencing and boxing , rid and rowing .
i know that this queer adventure of the gay - header 's will be sure to seem incredible to some landsman , though they themselves may have either see or hear of some one be fall into a cistern ashore ; an accident which not seldom happen , and with much less reason too than the indian 's , consider the exceed slipperiness of the curb of the sperm whale 's well .
but , peradventure , it may be sagaciously urge , how be this ? we think the tissue , infiltrate head of the sperm whale , be the light and most corky part about he ; and yet thou mak it sink in an element of a far great specific gravity than itself . we have thee there . not at all , but i have ye ; for at the time poor tash fall in , the case have be nearly empty of its light content , leave little but the dense tendinous wall of the well -- a double weld , hammer substance , as i have before say , much heavy than the sea water , and a lump of which sink in it like lead almost . but the tendency to rapid sinking in this substance be in the present instance materially counteract by the other part of the head remain undetache from it , so that it sink very slowly and deliberately indeed , afford queequeg a fair chance for perform his agile obstetric on the run , as you may say . yes , it be a running delivery , so it be .
now , have tashtego perish in that head , it have be a very precious perishing ; smother in the very whitest and daintiest of fragrant spermaceti ; coffin , hearse , and tombe in the secret inner chamber and sanctum sanctorum of the whale . only one sweet end can readily be recall -- the delicious death of an ohio honey - hunter , who seek honey in the crotch of a hollow tree , find such exceeding store of it , that lean too far over , it suck he in , so that he die embalm . how many , think ye , have likewise fall into plato 's honey head , and sweetly perish there ?
chapter 79
the prairie .
to scan the line of his face , or feel the bump on the head of this leviathan ; this be a thing which no physiognomist or phrenologist have as yet undertake . such an enterprise would seem almost as hopeful as for lavater to have scrutinize the wrinkle on the rock of gibraltar , or for gall to have mount a ladder and manipulate the dome of the pantheon . still , in that famous work of his , lavater not only treat of the various face of man , but also attentively study the face of horse , bird , serpent , and fish ; and dwell in detail upon the modification of expression discernible therein . nor have gall and his disciple spurzheim fail to throw out some hint touch the phrenological characteristic of other being than man . therefore , though i be but ill qualified for a pioneer , in the application of these two semi - science to the whale , i will do my endeavor . i try all thing ; i achieve what i can .
physiognomically regard , the sperm whale be an anomalous creature . he have no proper nose . and since the nose be the central and most conspicuous of the feature ; and since it perhaps most modifie and finally control their combine expression ; hence it would seem that its entire absence , as an external appendage , must very largely affect the countenance of the whale . for as in landscape gardening , a spire , cupola , monument , or tower of some sort , be deem almost indispensable to the completion of the scene ; so no face can be physiognomically in keeping without the elevated open - work belfry of the nose . dash the nose from phidias 's marble jove , and what a sorry remainder ! nevertheless , leviathan be of so mighty a magnitude , all his proportion be so stately , that the same deficiency which in the sculpture jove be hideous , in he be no blemish at all . nay , it be an add grandeur . a nose to the whale would have be impertinent . as on your physiognomical voyage you sail round his vast head in your jolly - boat , your noble conception of he be never insult by the reflection that he have a nose to be pull . a pestilent conceit , which so often will insist upon obtrude even when behold the mighty royal beadle on his throne .
in some particular , perhaps the most impose physiognomical view to be have of the sperm whale , be that of the full front of his head . this aspect be sublime .
in thought , a fine human brow be like the east when trouble with the morning . in the repose of the pasture , the curled brow of the bull have a touch of the grand in it . push heavy cannon up mountain defile , the elephant 's brow be majestic . human or animal , the mystical brow be as that great golden seal affix by the german emperors to their decree . it signifies--"god : do this day by my hand . " but in most creature , nay in man himself , very often the brow be but a mere strip of alpine land lie along the snow line . few be the forehead which like shakespeare 's or melancthon 's rise so high , and descend so low , that the eye themselves seem clear , eternal , tideless mountain lake ; and all above they in the forehead 's wrinkle , you seem to track the antlere thought descend there to drink , as the highland hunter track the snow print of the deer . but in the great sperm whale , this high and mighty god - like dignity inherent in the brow be so immensely amplify , that gaze on it , in that full front view , you feel the deity and the dread power more forcibly than in behold any other object in live nature . for you see no one point precisely ; not one distinct feature be reveal ; no nose , eye , ear , or mouth ; no face ; he have none , proper ; nothing but that one broad firmament of a forehead , pleat with riddle ; dumbly lower with the doom of boat , and ship , and man . nor , in profile , do this wondrous brow diminish ; though that way view its grandeur do not domineer upon you so . in profile , you plainly perceive that horizontal , semi - crescentic depression in the forehead 's middle , which , in man , be lavater 's mark of genius .
but how ? genius in the sperm whale ? have the sperm whale ever write a book , speak a speech ? no , his great genius be declare in his do nothing particular to prove it . it be moreover declare in his pyramidical silence . and this remind i that have the great sperm whale been know to the young orient world , he would have be deify by their child - magian thought . they deify the crocodile of the nile , because the crocodile be tongueless ; and the sperm whale have no tongue , or at least it be so exceedingly small , as to be incapable of protrusion . if hereafter any highly cultured , poetical nation shall lure back to their birth - right , the merry may - day god of old ; and livingly enthrone they again in the now egotistical sky ; in the now unhaunted hill ; then be sure , exalt to jove 's high seat , the great sperm whale shall lord it .
champollion decipher the wrinkle granite hieroglyphic . but there be no champollion to decipher the egypt of every man 's and every being 's face . physiognomy , like every other human science , be but a pass fable . if then , sir william jones , who read in thirty language , could not read the simple peasant 's face in its profounder and more subtle meaning , how may unlettere ishmael hope to read the awful chaldee of the sperm whale 's brow ? i but put that brow before you . read it if you can .
chapter 80
the nut .
if the sperm whale be physiognomically a sphinx , to the phrenologist his brain seem that geometrical circle which it be impossible to square .
in the full - grow creature the skull will measure at least twenty foot in length . unhinge the low jaw , and the side view of this skull be as the side of a moderately incline plane rest throughout on a level base . but in life -- as we have elsewhere see -- this inclined plane be angularly fill up , and almost square by the enormous superincumbent mass of the junk and sperm . at the high end the skull form a crater to bed that part of the mass ; while under the long floor of this crater -- in another cavity seldom exceed ten inch in length and as many in depth -- repose the mere handful of this monster 's brain . the brain be at least twenty foot from his apparent forehead in life ; it be hide away behind its vast outwork , like the innermost citadel within the amplify fortification of quebec . so like a choice casket be it secrete in he , that i have know some whaleman who peremptorily deny that the sperm whale have any other brain than that palpable semblance of one form by the cubic - yard of his sperm magazine . lie in strange fold , course , and convolution , to their apprehension , it seem more in keep with the idea of his general might to regard that mystic part of he as the seat of his intelligence .
it be plain , then , that phrenologically the head of this leviathan , in the creature 's live intact state , be an entire delusion . as for his true brain , you can then see no indication of it , nor feel any . the whale , like all thing that be mighty , wear a false brow to the common world .
if you unload his skull of its spermy heap and then take a rear view of its rear end , which be the high end , you will be strike by its resemblance to the human skull , beheld in the same situation , and from the same point of view . indeed , place this reverse skull ( scale down to the human magnitude ) among a plate of man 's skull , and you would involuntarily confound it with they ; and remark the depression on one part of its summit , in phrenological phrase you would say -- this man have no self - esteem , and no veneration . and by those negation , consider along with the affirmative fact of his prodigious bulk and power , you can well form to yourself the true , though not the most exhilarating conception of what the most exalted potency be .
but if from the comparative dimension of the whale 's proper brain , you deem it incapable of be adequately chart , then i have another idea for you . if you attentively regard almost any quadrupe 's spine , you will be strike with the resemblance of its vertebrae to a strung necklace of dwarfed skull , all bear rudimental resemblance to the skull proper . it be a german conceit , that the vertebrae be absolutely undeveloped skull . but the curious external resemblance , i take it the germans be not the first man to perceive . a foreign friend once point it out to i , in the skeleton of a foe he have slay , and with the vertebrae of which he be inlay , in a sort of basso - relievo , the beak prow of his canoe . now , i consider that the phrenologist have omit an important thing in not push their investigation from the cerebellum through the spinal canal . for i believe that much of a man 's character will be find betoken in his backbone . i would rather feel your spine than your skull , whoever you be . a thin joist of a spine never yet uphold a full and noble soul . i rejoice in my spine , as in the firm audacious staff of that flag which i fling half out to the world .
apply this spinal branch of phrenology to the sperm whale . his cranial cavity be continuous with the first neck - vertebra ; and in that vertebra the bottom of the spinal canal will measure ten inch across , be eight in height , and of a triangular figure with the base downward . as it pass through the remain vertebrae the canal taper in size , but for a considerable distance remain of large capacity . now , of course , this canal be fill with much the same strangely fibrous substance -- the spinal cord -- as the brain ; and directly communicate with the brain . and what be still more , for many foot after emerge from the brain 's cavity , the spinal cord remain of an undecrease girth , almost equal to that of the brain . under all these circumstance , would it be unreasonable to survey and map out the whale 's spine phrenologically ? for , view in this light , the wonderful comparative smallness of his brain proper be more than compensate by the wonderful comparative magnitude of his spinal cord .
but leave this hint to operate as it may with the phrenologist , i would merely assume the spinal theory for a moment , in reference to the sperm whale 's hump . this august hump , if i mistake not , rise over one of the large vertebrae , and be , therefore , in some sort , the outer convex mould of it . from its relative situation then , i should call this high hump the organ of firmness or indomitableness in the sperm whale . and that the great monster be indomitable , you will yet have reason to know .
chapter 81
the pequod meet the virgin .
the predestinate day arrive , and we duly meet the ship jungfrau , derick de deer , master , of bremen .
at one time the great whale people in the world , the dutch and germans be now among the least ; but here and there at very wide interval of latitude and longitude , you still occasionally meet with their flag in the pacific .
for some reason , the jungfrau seem quite eager to pay her respect . while yet some distance from the pequod , she round to , and drop a boat , her captain be impel towards we , impatiently stand in the bow instead of the stern .
" what have he in his hand there ? " cry starbuck , point to something wavingly hold by the german . " impossible!--a lamp - feeder ! "
" not that , " say stubb , " no , no , it be a coffee - pot , mr. starbuck ; he be come off to make we our coffee , be the yarman ; do not you see that big tin can there alongside of him?--that be his boiling water . oh ! he be all right , be the yarman . "
" go along with you , " cry flask , " it be a lamp - feeder and an oil - can . he be out of oil , and have come a - begging . "
however curious it may seem for an oil - ship to be borrow oil on the whale - ground , and however much it may invertedly contradict the old proverb about carry coal to newcastle , yet sometimes such a thing really happen ; and in the present case captain derick de deer do indubitably conduct a lamp - feeder as flask do declare .
as he mount the deck , ahab abruptly accost he , without at all heed what he have in his hand ; but in his broken lingo , the german soon evince his complete ignorance of the white whale ; immediately turn the conversation to his lamp - feeder and oil can , with some remark touch his have to turn into his hammock at night in profound darkness -- his last drop of bremen oil be go , and not a single fly - fish yet capture to supply the deficiency ; conclude by hint that his ship be indeed what in the fishery be technically call a clean one ( that be , an empty one ) , well deserve the name of jungfrau or the virgin .
his necessity supply , derick depart ; but he have not gain his ship 's side , when whale be almost simultaneously raise from the mast - head of both vessel ; and so eager for the chase be derick , that without pause to put his oil - can and lamp - feeder aboard , he slew round his boat and make after the leviathan lamp - feeder .
now , the game having rise to leeward , he and the other three german boat that soon follow he , have considerably the start of the pequod 's keel . there be eight whale , an average pod . aware of their danger , they be go all abreast with great speed straight before the wind , rub their flank as closely as so many span of horse in harness . they leave a great , wide wake , as though continually unroll a great wide parchment upon the sea .
full in this rapid wake , and many fathom in the rear , swam a huge , humped old bull , which by his comparatively slow progress , as well as by the unusual yellowish incrustation overgrow he , seemed afflict with the jaundice , or some other infirmity . whether this whale belong to the pod in advance , seem questionable ; for it be not customary for such venerable leviathan to be at all social . nevertheless , he stick to their wake , though indeed their back water must have retard he , because the white - bone or swell at his broad muzzle be a dashed one , like the swell form when two hostile current meet . his spout be short , slow , and laborious ; come forth with a choking sort of gush , and spend itself in tear shred , follow by strange subterranean commotion in he , which seem to have egress at his other bury extremity , cause the water behind he to upbubble .
" who be get some paregoric ? " say stubb , " he have the stomach - ache , i be afraid . lord , think of have half an acre of stomach - ache ! adverse wind be hold mad christmas in he , boy . it be the first foul wind i ever know to blow from astern ; but look , do ever whale yaw so before ? it must be , he be lose his tiller . "
as an overladen indiaman bear down the hindostan coast with a deck load of frightened horse , careen , burie , roll , and wallow on her way ; so do this old whale heave his aged bulk , and now and then partly turn over on his cumbrous rib - end , expose the cause of his devious wake in the unnatural stump of his starboard fin . whether he have lose that fin in battle , or have be bear without it , it be hard to say .
" only wait a bit , old chap , and i will give ye a sling for that wound arm , " cry cruel flask , point to the whale - line near he .
" mind he do not sle thee with it , " cry starbuck . " give way , or the german will have he . "
with one intent all the combine rival boat be point for this one fish , because not only be he the large , and therefore the most valuable whale , but he be near to they , and the other whale be go with such great velocity , moreover , as almost to defy pursuit for the time . at this juncture the pequod 's keel have shoot by the three german boat last lower ; but from the great start he have have , derick 's boat still lead the chase , though every moment near by his foreign rival . the only thing they fear , be , that from be already so nigh to his mark , he would be enable to dart his iron before they could completely overtake and pass he . as for derick , he seem quite confident that this would be the case , and occasionally with a deriding gesture shake his lamp - feeder at the other boat .
" the ungracious and ungrateful dog ! " cry starbuck ; " he mock and dare i with the very poor - box i fill for he not five minute ago!"--then in his old intense whisper--"give way , greyhound ! dog to it ! "
" i tell ye what it be , men"--crie stubb to his crew--"it 's against my religion to get mad ; but i would like to eat that villainous yarman -- pull -- won't ye ? be ye go to let that rascal beat ye ? do ye love brandy ? a hogshead of brandy , then , to the good man . come , why do not some of ye burst a blood - vessel ? who be that be drop an anchor overboard -- we do not budge an inch -- we're becalm . halloo , here 's grass grow in the boat 's bottom -- and by the lord , the mast there be bud . this will not do , boy . look at that yarman ! the short and long of it be , man , will ye spit fire or not ? "
" oh ! see the sud he make ! " cry flask , dance up and down--"what a hump -- oh , do pile on the beef -- lay like a log ! oh ! my lad , do spring -- slap - jack and quahog for supper , you know , my lad -- bake clam and muffin -- oh , do , do , spring,--he 's a hundred barreller -- don't lose he now -- don't oh , don't!--see that yarman -- oh , will not ye pull for your duff , my lad -- such a sog ! such a sogger ! do not ye love sperm ? there go three thousand dollar , men!--a bank!--a whole bank ! the bank of england!--oh , do , do , do!--what be that yarman about now ? "
at this moment derick be in the act of pitch his lamp - feeder at the advance boat , and also his oil - can ; perhaps with the double view of retard his rival ' way , and at the same time economically accelerate his own by the momentary impetus of the backward toss .
" the unmannerly dutch dogger ! " cry stubb . " pull now , man , like fifty thousand line - of - battle - ship load of red - haired devil . what d'ye say , tashtego ; be you the man to snap your spine in two - and - twenty piece for the honour of old gayhead ? what d'ye say ? "
" i say , pull like god - dam,"--crie the indian .
fiercely , but evenly incite by the taunt of the german , the pequod 's three boat now begin range almost abreast ; and , so disposed , momentarily near he . in that fine , loose , chivalrous attitude of the headsman when draw near to his prey , the three mate stand up proudly , occasionally back the after oarsman with an exhilarating cry of , " there she slide , now ! hurrah for the white - ash breeze ! down with the yarman ! sail over he ! "
but so decide an original start have derick have , that spite of all their gallantry , he would have prove the victor in this race , have not a righteous judgment descend upon he in a crab which catch the blade of his midship oarsman . while this clumsy lubber be strive to free his white - ash , and while , in consequence , derick 's boat be nigh to capsize , and he thunder away at his man in a mighty rage;--that be a good time for starbuck , stubb , and flask . with a shout , they take a mortal start forwards , and slantingly range up on the german 's quarter . an instant more , and all four boat be diagonically in the whale 's immediate wake , while stretch from they , on both side , be the foaming swell that he make .
it be a terrific , most pitiable , and madden sight . the whale be now go head out , and send his spout before he in a continual torment jet ; while his one poor fin beat his side in an agony of fright . now to this hand , now to that , he yaw in his falter flight , and still at every billow that he break , he spasmodically sink in the sea , or sideway roll towards the sky his one beat fin . so have i see a bird with clipped wing making affright broken circle in the air , vainly strive to escape the piratical hawk . but the bird have a voice , and with plaintive cry will make know her fear ; but the fear of this vast dumb brute of the sea , be chain up and enchant in he ; he have no voice , save that choke respiration through his spiracle , and this make the sight of he unspeakably pitiable ; while still , in his amazing bulk , portculli jaw , and omnipotent tail , there be enough to appal the stout man who so pity .
see now that but a very few moment more would give the pequod 's boat the advantage , and rather than be thus foil of his game , derick choose to hazard what to he must have seem a most unusually long dart , ere the last chance would for ever escape .
but no soon do his harpooneer stand up for the stroke , than all three tiger -- queequeg , tashtego , daggoo -- instinctively spring to their foot , and stand in a diagonal row , simultaneously point their barb ; and dart over the head of the german harpooneer , their three nantucket iron enter the whale . blinding vapour of foam and white - fire ! the three boat , in the first fury of the whale 's headlong rush , bump the german 's aside with such force , that both derick and his baffled harpooneer be spill out , and sail over by the three fly keel .
" do not be afraid , my butter - box , " cry stubb , cast a pass glance upon they as he shoot by ; " ye'll be pick up presently -- all right -- i see some shark astern -- st. bernard 's dog , you know -- relieve distressed traveller . hurrah ! this be the way to sail now . every keel a sunbeam ! hurrah!--here we go like three tin kettle at the tail of a mad cougar ! this put i in mind of fasten to an elephant in a tilbury on a plain -- make the wheel - spoke fly , boy , when you fasten to he that way ; and there be danger of be pitch out too , when you strike a hill . hurrah ! this be the way a fellow feel when he be go to davy jones -- all a rush down an endless inclined plane ! hurrah ! this whale carry the everlasting mail ! "
but the monster 's run be a brief one . give a sudden gasp , he tumultuously sound . with a grating rush , the three line fly round the loggerhead with such a force as to gouge deep groove in they ; while so fearful be the harpooneer that this rapid sounding would soon exhaust the line , that use all their dexterous might , they catch repeat smoking turn with the rope to hold on ; till at last -- owe to the perpendicular strain from the lead - line chock of the boat , whence the three rope go straight down into the blue -- the gunwale of the bow be almost even with the water , while the three stern tilt high in the air . and the whale soon cease to sound , for some time they remain in that attitude , fearful of expend more line , though the position be a little ticklish . but though boat have be take down and lose in this way , yet it be this " hold on , " as it be call ; this hooking up by the sharp barb of his live flesh from the back ; this it be that often torment the leviathan into soon rise again to meet the sharp lance of his foe . yet not to speak of the peril of the thing , it be to be doubt whether this course be always the good ; for it be but reasonable to presume , that the long the stricken whale stay under water , the more he be exhaust . because , owe to the enormous surface of he -- in a full grow sperm whale something less than 2000 square foot -- the pressure of the water be immense . we all know what an astonishing atmospheric weight we ourselves stand up under ; even here , above - ground , in the air ; how vast , then , the burden of a whale , bear on his back a column of two hundred fathom of ocean ! it must at least equal the weight of fifty atmosphere . one whaleman have estimate it at the weight of twenty line - of - battle ship , with all their gun , and store , and man on board .
as the three boat lay there on that gently roll sea , gaze down into its eternal blue noon ; and as not a single groan or cry of any sort , nay , not so much as a ripple or a bubble come up from its depth ; what landsman would have think , that beneath all that silence and placidity , the utmost monster of the sea be writhe and wrench in agony ! not eight inch of perpendicular rope be visible at the bow . seem it credible that by three such thin thread the great leviathan be suspend like the big weight to an eight day clock . suspend ? and to what ? to three bit of board . be this the creature of whom it be once so triumphantly said--"canst thou fill his skin with barbed iron ? or his head with fish - spear ? the sword of he that layeth at he can not hold , the spear , the dart , nor the habergeon : he esteemeth iron as straw ; the arrow can not make he flee ; dart be count as stubble ; he laugheth at the shaking of a spear ! " this the creature ? this he ? oh ! that unfulfilment should follow the prophet . for with the strength of a thousand thigh in his tail , leviathan have run his head under the mountain of the sea , to hide he from the pequod 's fish - spear !
in that slop afternoon sunlight , the shadow that the three boat send down beneath the surface , must have be long enough and broad enough to shade half xerxes ' army . who can tell how appalling to the wound whale must have be such huge phantom flit over his head !
" stand by , man ; he stir , " cry starbuck , as the three line suddenly vibrate in the water , distinctly conduct upwards to they , as by magnetic wire , the life and death throb of the whale , so that every oarsman feel they in his seat . the next moment , relieve in great part from the downward strain at the bow , the boat give a sudden bounce upwards , as a small icefield will , when a dense herd of white bear be scared from it into the sea .
" haul in ! haul in ! " cry starbuck again ; " he be rise . "
the line , of which , hardly an instant before , not one hand 's breadth could have be gain , be now in long quick coil fling back all dripping into the boat , and soon the whale break water within two ship 's length of the hunter .
his motion plainly denote his extreme exhaustion . in most land animal there be certain valve or flood - gate in many of their vein , whereby when wound , the blood be in some degree at least instantly shut off in certain direction . not so with the whale ; one of whose peculiarity it be to have an entire non - valvular structure of the blood - vessel , so that when pierce even by so small a point as a harpoon , a deadly drain be at once begin upon his whole arterial system ; and when this be heighten by the extraordinary pressure of water at a great distance below the surface , his life may be say to pour from he in incessant stream . yet so vast be the quantity of blood in he , and so distant and numerous its interior fountain , that he will keep thus bleed and bleed for a considerable period ; even as in a drought a river will flow , whose source be in the well - spring of far - off and undiscernible hill . even now , when the boat pull upon this whale , and perilously draw over his sway fluke , and the lance be dart into he , they be follow by steady jet from the new make wound , which keep continually play , while the natural spout - hole in his head be only at interval , however rapid , send its affrighted moisture into the air . from this last vent no blood yet come , because no vital part of he have thus far be strike . his life , as they significantly call it , be untouched .
as the boat now more closely surround he , the whole upper part of his form , with much of it that be ordinarily submerge , be plainly reveal . his eye , or rather the place where his eye have be , be beheld . as strange misgrown mass gather in the knot - hole of the noble oak when prostrate , so from the point which the whale 's eye have once occupy , now protrude blind bulb , horribly pitiable to see . but pity there be none . for all his old age , and his one arm , and his blind eye , he must die the death and be murder , in order to light the gay bridal and other merry - making of man , and also to illuminate the solemn church that preach unconditional inoffensiveness by all to all . still roll in his blood , at last he partially disclose a strangely discolour bunch or protuberance , the size of a bushel , low down on the flank .
" a nice spot , " cry flask ; " just let i prick he there once . "
" avast ! " cry starbuck , " there be no need of that ! "
but humane starbuck be too late . at the instant of the dart an ulcerous jet shot from this cruel wound , and goad by it into more than sufferable anguish , the whale now spout thick blood , with swift fury blindly dart at the craft , bespatter they and their glory crew all over with shower of gore , capsize flask 's boat and mar the bow . it be his death stroke . for , by this time , so spend be he by loss of blood , that he helplessly roll away from the wreck he have make ; lie pant on his side , impotently flap with his stumped fin , then over and over slowly revolve like a wan world ; turn up the white secret of his belly ; lie like a log , and die . it be most piteous , that last expiring spout . as when by unseen hand the water be gradually draw off from some mighty fountain , and with half - stifle melancholy gurgling the spray - column lower and lower to the ground -- so the last long die spout of the whale .
soon , while the crew be await the arrival of the ship , the body show symptom of sink with all its treasure unrifle . immediately , by starbuck 's order , line be secure to it at different point , so that ere long every boat be a buoy ; the sunken whale be suspend a few inch beneath they by the cord . by very heedful management , when the ship draw nigh , the whale be transfer to her side , and be strongly secure there by the stiff fluke - chain , for it be plain that unless artificially uphold , the body would at once sink to the bottom .
it so chance that almost upon first cut into he with the spade , the entire length of a corrode harpoon be find imbedded in his flesh , on the low part of the bunch before describe . but as the stump of harpoon be frequently find in the dead body of capture whale , with the flesh perfectly heal around they , and no prominence of any kind to denote their place ; therefore , there must need have be some other unknown reason in the present case fully to account for the ulceration allude to . but still more curious be the fact of a lance - head of stone be find in he , not far from the bury iron , the flesh perfectly firm about it . who have dart that stone lance ? and when ? it might have be dart by some nor ' west indian long before america be discover .
what other marvel might have be rummage out of this monstrous cabinet there be no telling . but a sudden stop be put to further discovery , by the ship 's be unprecedentedly drag over sideways to the sea , owe to the body 's immensely increase tendency to sink . however , starbuck , who have the ordering of affair , hang on to it to the last ; hang on to it so resolutely , indeed , that when at length the ship would have be capsize , if still persist in lock arm with the body ; then , when the command be give to break clear from it , such be the immovable strain upon the timber - head to which the fluke - chain and cable be fasten , that it be impossible to cast they off . meantime everything in the pequod be aslant . to cross to the other side of the deck be like walk up the steep gable roof of a house . the ship groan and gasp . many of the ivory inlaying of her bulwark and cabin be start from their place , by the unnatural dislocation . in vain handspike and crow be bring to bear upon the immovable fluke - chain , to pry they adrift from the timberhead ; and so low have the whale now settle that the submerge end could not be at all approach , while every moment whole ton of ponderosity seemed add to the sink bulk , and the ship seem on the point of go over .
" hold on , hold on , will not ye ? " cry stubb to the body , " do not be in such a devil of a hurry to sink ! by thunder , man , we must do something or go for it . no use pry there ; avast , i say with your handspike , and run one of ye for a prayer book and a pen - knife , and cut the big chain . "
" knife ? aye , aye , " cry queequeg , and seize the carpenter 's heavy hatchet , he lean out of a porthole , and steel to iron , begin slash at the large fluke - chain . but a few stroke , full of spark , be give , when the exceeding strain effect the rest . with a terrific snap , every fastening go adrift ; the ship right , the carcase sink .
now , this occasional inevitable sinking of the recently kill sperm whale be a very curious thing ; nor have any fisherman yet adequately account for it . usually the dead sperm whale float with great buoyancy , with its side or belly considerably elevate above the surface . if the only whale that thus sink be old , meagre , and break - hearted creature , their pad of lard diminish and all their bone heavy and rheumatic ; then you might with some reason assert that this sinking be cause by an uncommon specific gravity in the fish so sink , consequent upon this absence of buoyant matter in he . but it be not so . for young whale , in the high health , and swell with noble aspiration , prematurely cut off in the warm flush and may of life , with all their pant lard about they ; even these brawny , buoyant hero do sometimes sink .
be it say , however , that the sperm whale be far less liable to this accident than any other specie . where one of that sort go down , twenty right whale do . this difference in the species be no doubt imputable in no small degree to the great quantity of bone in the right whale ; his venetian blind alone sometimes weigh more than a ton ; from this incumbrance the sperm whale be wholly free . but there be instance where , after the lapse of many hour or several day , the sunken whale again rise , more buoyant than in life . but the reason of this be obvious . gas be generate in he ; he swell to a prodigious magnitude ; become a sort of animal balloon . a line - of - battle ship could hardly keep he under then . in the shore whaling , on sounding , among the bay of new zealand , when a right whale give token of sink , they fasten buoy to he , with plenty of rope ; so that when the body have go down , they know where to look for it when it shall have ascend again .
it be not long after the sinking of the body that a cry be hear from the pequod 's mast - head , announce that the jungfrau be again lower her boat ; though the only spout in sight be that of a fin - back , belong to the specie of uncapturable whale , because of its incredible power of swimming . nevertheless , the fin - back 's spout be so similar to the sperm whale 's , that by unskilful fisherman it be often mistake for it . and consequently derick and all his host be now in valiant chase of this unnearable brute . the virgin crowd all sail , make after her four young keel , and thus they all disappear far to leeward , still in bold , hopeful chase .
oh ! many be the fin - backs , and many be the derick , my friend .
chapter 82
the honour and glory of whaling .
there be some enterprise in which a careful disorderliness be the true method .
the more i dive into this matter of whaling , and push my research up to the very spring - head of it so much the more am i impressed with its great honourableness and antiquity ; and especially when i find so many great demi - god and hero , prophet of all sort , who one way or other have shed distinction upon it , i be transport with the reflection that i myself belong , though but subordinately , to so emblazon a fraternity .
the gallant perseus , a son of jupiter , be the first whaleman ; and to the eternal honour of our calling be it say , that the first whale attack by our brotherhood be not kill with any sordid intent . those be the knightly day of our profession , when we only bear arm to succor the distressed , and not to fill man 's lamp - feeder . every one know the fine story of perseus and andromeda ; how the lovely andromeda , the daughter of a king , be tie to a rock on the sea - coast , and as leviathan be in the very act of carry she off , perseus , the prince of whaleman , intrepidly advance , harpoon the monster , and deliver and marry the maid . it be an admirable artistic exploit , rarely achieve by the good harpooneer of the present day ; inasmuch as this leviathan be slay at the very first dart . and let no man doubt this arkite story ; for in the ancient joppa , now jaffa , on the syrian coast , in one of the pagan temple , there stand for many age the vast skeleton of a whale , which the city 's legend and all the inhabitant assert to be the identical bone of the monster that perseus slay . when the romans take joppa , the same skeleton be carry to italy in triumph . what seem most singular and suggestively important in this story , be this : it be from joppa that jonah set sail .
akin to the adventure of perseus and andromeda -- indeed , by some suppose to be indirectly derive from it -- be that famous story of st. george and the dragon ; which dragon i maintain to have be a whale ; for in many old chronicle whale and dragon be strangely jumble together , and often stand for each other . " thou art as a lion of the water , and as a dragon of the sea , " saith ezekiel ; hereby , plainly mean a whale ; in truth , some version of the bible use that word itself . besides , it would much subtract from the glory of the exploit have st. george but encounter a crawl reptile of the land , instead of do battle with the great monster of the deep . any man may kill a snake , but only a perseus , a st. george , a coffin , have the heart in they to march boldly up to a whale .
let not the modern painting of this scene mislead we ; for though the creature encounter by that valiant whaleman of old be vaguely represent of a griffin - like shape , and though the battle be depict on land and the saint on horseback , yet consider the great ignorance of those time , when the true form of the whale be unknown to artist ; and consider that as in perseus ' case , st. george 's whale might have crawl up out of the sea on the beach ; and consider that the animal ride by st. george might have be only a large seal , or sea - horse ; bear all this in mind , it will not appear altogether incompatible with the sacred legend and the ancient draught of the scene , to hold this so - call dragon no other than the great leviathan himself . in fact , place before the strict and pierce truth , this whole story will fare like that fish , flesh , and fowl idol of the philistines , dagon by name ; who be plant before the ark of israel , his horse 's head and both the palm of his hand fall off from he , and only the stump or fishy part of he remain . thus , then , one of our own noble stamp , even a whaleman , be the tutelary guardian of england ; and by good right , we harpooneer of nantucket should be enrol in the most noble order of st. george . and therefore , let not the knight of that honourable company ( none of whom , i venture to say , have ever have to do with a whale like their great patron ) , let they never eye a nantucketer with disdain , since even in our woollen frock and tar trowser we be much well entitle to st. george 's decoration than they .
whether to admit hercules among we or not , concern this i long remain dubious : for though accord to the greek mythology , that antique crockett and kit carson -- that brawny doer of rejoice good deed , be swallow down and throw up by a whale ; still , whether that strictly make a whaleman of he , that might be moot . it nowhere appear that he ever actually harpoon his fish , unless , indeed , from the inside . nevertheless , he may be deem a sort of involuntary whaleman ; at any rate the whale catch he , if he do not the whale . i claim he for one of our clan .
but , by the good contradictory authority , this grecian story of hercules and the whale be consider to be derive from the still more ancient hebrew story of jonah and the whale ; and vice versa ; certainly they be very similar . if i claim the demigod then , why not the prophet ?
nor do hero , saint , demigod , and prophet alone comprise the whole roll of our order . our grand master be still to be name ; for like royal king of old time , we find the head water of our fraternity in nothing short of the great god themselves . that wondrous oriental story be now to be rehearse from the shaster , which give we the dread vishnoo , one of the three person in the godhead of the hindoos ; give we this divine vishnoo himself for our lord;--vishnoo , who , by the first of his ten earthly incarnation , have for ever set apart and sanctify the whale . when brahma , or the god of gods , saith the shaster , resolve to recreate the world after one of its periodical dissolution , he give birth to vishnoo , to preside over the work ; but the vedas , or mystical book , whose perusal would seem to have be indispensable to vishnoo before begin the creation , and which therefore must have contain something in the shape of practical hint to young architect , these vedas be lie at the bottom of the water ; so vishnoo become incarnate in a whale , and sound down in he to the uttermost depth , rescue the sacred volume . be not this vishnoo a whaleman , then ? even as a man who rid a horse be call a horseman ?
perseus , st. george , hercules , jonah , and vishnoo ! there be a member - roll for you ! what club but the whaleman 's can head off like that ?
chapter 83
jonah historically regarded .
reference be make to the historical story of jonah and the whale in the precede chapter . now some nantucketers rather distrust this historical story of jonah and the whale . but then there be some sceptical greeks and romans , who , stand out from the orthodox pagan of their time , equally doubt the story of hercules and the whale , and arion and the dolphin ; and yet their doubt those tradition do not make those tradition one whit the less fact , for all that .
one old sag - harbor whaleman 's chief reason for question the hebrew story be this:--he have one of those quaint old - fashioned bible , embellish with curious , unscientific plate ; one of which represent jonah 's whale with two spout in his head -- a peculiarity only true with respect to a species of the leviathan ( the right whale , and the variety of that order ) , concern which the fisherman have this saying , " a penny roll would choke he " ; his swallow be so very small . but , to this , bishop jebb 's anticipative answer be ready . it be not necessary , hint the bishop , that we consider jonah as tombed in the whale 's belly , but as temporarily lodge in some part of his mouth . and this seem reasonable enough in the good bishop . for truly , the right whale 's mouth would accommodate a couple of whist - table , and comfortably seat all the player . possibly , too , jonah might have ensconce himself in a hollow tooth ; but , on second thought , the right whale be toothless .
another reason which sag - harbor ( he go by that name ) urge for his want of faith in this matter of the prophet , be something obscurely in reference to his incarcerated body and the whale 's gastric juice . but this objection likewise fall to the ground , because a german exegetist suppose that jonah must have take refuge in the float body of a dead whale -- even as the french soldier in the russian campaign turn their dead horse into tent , and crawl into they . besides , it have be divine by other continental commentator , that when jonah be throw overboard from the joppa ship , he straightway effect his escape to another vessel near by , some vessel with a whale for a figure - head ; and , i would add , possibly call " the whale , " as some craft be nowadays christen the " shark , " the " gull , " the " eagle . " nor have there be want learn exegetist who have opine that the whale mention in the book of jonah merely mean a life - preserver -- an inflated bag of wind -- which the endangered prophet swam to , and so be save from a watery doom . poor sag - harbor , therefore , seem worst all round . but he have still another reason for his want of faith . it be this , if i remember right : jonah be swallow by the whale in the mediterranean sea , and after three day he be vomit up somewhere within three day ' journey of nineveh , a city on the tigris , very much more than three day ' journey across from the near point of the mediterranean coast . how be that ?
but be there no other way for the whale to land the prophet within that short distance of nineveh ? yes . he might have carry he round by the way of the cape of good hope . but not to speak of the passage through the whole length of the mediterranean , and another passage up the persian gulf and red sea , such a supposition would involve the complete circumnavigation of all africa in three day , not to speak of the tigris water , near the site of nineveh , be too shallow for any whale to swim in . besides , this idea of jonah 's weather the cape of good hope at so early a day would wrest the honour of the discovery of that great headland from bartholomew diaz , its reputed discoverer , and so make modern history a liar .
but all these foolish argument of old sag - harbor only evince his foolish pride of reason -- a thing still more reprehensible in he , see that he have but little learning except what he have pick up from the sun and the sea . i say it only show his foolish , impious pride , and abominable , devilish rebellion against the reverend clergy . for by a portuguese catholic priest , this very idea of jonah 's go to nineveh via the cape of good hope be advance as a signal magnification of the general miracle . and so it be . besides , to this day , the highly enlighten turks devoutly believe in the historical story of jonah . and some three century ago , an english traveller in old harris 's voyages , speak of a turkish mosque build in honour of jonah , in which mosque be a miraculous lamp that burn without any oil .
chapter 84
pitchpoling .
to make they run easily and swiftly , the axle of carriage be anoint ; and for much the same purpose , some whaler perform an analogous operation upon their boat ; they grease the bottom . nor be it to be doubt that as such a procedure can do no harm , it may possibly be of no contemptible advantage ; consider that oil and water be hostile ; that oil be a slide thing , and that the object in view be to make the boat slide bravely . queequeg believe strongly in anoint his boat , and one morning not long after the german ship jungfrau disappear , take more than customary pain in that occupation ; crawl under its bottom , where it hang over the side , and rub in the unctuousness as though diligently seek to insure a crop of hair from the craft 's bald keel . he seem to be work in obedience to some particular presentiment . nor do it remain unwarranted by the event .
towards noon whale be raise ; but so soon as the ship sail down to they , they turn and flee with swift precipitancy ; a disorder flight , as of cleopatra 's barge from actium .
nevertheless , the boat pursue , and stubb 's be foremost . by great exertion , tashtego at last succeed in plant one iron ; but the stricken whale , without at all sound , still continue his horizontal flight , with add fleetness . such unintermitted straining upon the plant iron must soon or later inevitably extract it . it become imperative to lance the fly whale , or be content to lose he . but to haul the boat up to his flank be impossible , he swam so fast and furious . what then remain ?
of all the wondrous device and dexterity , the sleight of hand and countless subtlety , to which the veteran whaleman be so often force , none exceed that fine manoeuvre with the lance call pitchpole . small sword , or broad sword , in all its exercise boast nothing like it . it be only indispensable with an inveterate running whale ; its grand fact and feature be the wonderful distance to which the long lance be accurately dart from a violently rock , jerk boat , under extreme headway . steel and wood include , the entire spear be some ten or twelve foot in length ; the staff be much slighter than that of the harpoon , and also of a light material -- pine . it be furnish with a small rope call a warp , of considerable length , by which it can be haul back to the hand after dart .
but before go far , it be important to mention here , that though the harpoon may be pitchpole in the same way with the lance , yet it be seldom do ; and when do , be still less frequently successful , on account of the great weight and inferior length of the harpoon as compare with the lance , which in effect become serious drawback . as a general thing , therefore , you must first get fast to a whale , before any pitchpoling come into play .
look now at stubb ; a man who from his humorous , deliberate coolness and equanimity in the dire emergency , be specially qualified to excel in pitchpole . look at he ; he stand upright in the tossed bow of the fly boat ; wrapt in fleecy foam , the tow whale be forty foot ahead . handle the long lance lightly , glance twice or thrice along its length to see if it be exactly straight , stubb whistlingly gather up the coil of the warp in one hand , so as to secure its free end in his grasp , leave the rest unobstructed . then hold the lance full before his waistband 's middle , he level it at the whale ; when , cover he with it , he steadily depress the butt - end in his hand , thereby elevate the point till the weapon stand fairly balanced upon his palm , fifteen foot in the air . he mind you somewhat of a juggler , balance a long staff on his chin . next moment with a rapid , nameless impulse , in a superb lofty arch the bright steel span the foaming distance , and quiver in the life spot of the whale . instead of sparkle water , he now spout red blood .
" that drive the spigot out of he ! " cry stubb . " ' tis july 's immortal fourth ; all fountain must run wine today ! would now , it be old orleans whiskey , or old ohio , or unspeakable old monongahela ! then , tashtego , lad , i would have ye hold a canakin to the jet , and we would drink round it ! yea , verily , heart alive , we would brew choice punch in the spread of his spout - hole there , and from that live punch - bowl quaff the live stuff . "
again and again to such gamesome talk , the dexterous dart be repeat , the spear return to its master like a greyhound hold in skilful leash . the agonized whale go into his flurry ; the tow - line be slacken , and the pitchpoler drop astern , fold his hand , and mutely watch the monster die .
chapter 85
the fountain .
that for six thousand year -- and no one know how many million of age before -- the great whale should have be spout all over the sea , and sprinkle and mistifye the garden of the deep , as with so many sprinkle or mistifying pot ; and that for some century back , thousand of hunter should have be close by the fountain of the whale , watch these sprinkling and spouting -- that all this should be , and yet , that down to this blessed minute ( fifteen and a quarter minute past one o'clock p.m. of this sixteenth day of december , a.d. 1851 ) , it should still remain a problem , whether these spouting be , after all , really water , or nothing but vapour -- this be surely a noteworthy thing .
let we , then , look at this matter , along with some interesting item contingent . every one know that by the peculiar cunning of their gill , the finny tribe in general breathe the air which at all time be combine with the element in which they swim ; hence , a herring or a cod might live a century , and never once raise its head above the surface . but owe to his marked internal structure which give he regular lung , like a human being 's , the whale can only live by inhale the disengage air in the open atmosphere . wherefore the necessity for his periodical visit to the upper world . but he can not in any degree breathe through his mouth , for , in his ordinary attitude , the sperm whale 's mouth be bury at least eight foot beneath the surface ; and what be still more , his windpipe have no connexion with his mouth . no , he breathe through his spiracle alone ; and this be on the top of his head .
if i say , that in any creature breathing be only a function indispensable to vitality , inasmuch as it withdraw from the air a certain element , which be subsequently bring into contact with the blood impart to the blood its vivifying principle , i do not think i shall err ; though i may possibly use some superfluous scientific word . assume it , and it follow that if all the blood in a man could be aerate with one breath , he might then seal up his nostril and not fetch another for a considerable time . that be to say , he would then live without breathe . anomalous as it may seem , this be precisely the case with the whale , who systematically live , by interval , his full hour and more ( when at the bottom ) without draw a single breath , or so much as in any way inhale a particle of air ; for , remember , he have no gill . how be this ? between his rib and on each side of his spine he be supply with a remarkable involve cretan labyrinth of vermicelli - like vessel , which vessel , when he quit the surface , be completely distend with oxygenate blood . so that for an hour or more , a thousand fathom in the sea , he carry a surplus stock of vitality in he , just as the camel cross the waterless desert carry a surplus supply of drink for future use in its four supplementary stomach . the anatomical fact of this labyrinth be indisputable ; and that the supposition found upon it be reasonable and true , seem the more cogent to i , when i consider the otherwise inexplicable obstinacy of that leviathan in have his spouting out , as the fisherman phrase it . this be what i mean . if unmoleste , upon rise to the surface , the sperm whale will continue there for a period of time exactly uniform with all his other unmolested rising . say he stay eleven minute , and jet seventy time , that is , respire seventy breath ; then whenever he rise again , he will be sure to have his seventy breath over again , to a minute . now , if after he fetch a few breath you alarm he , so that he sound , he will be always dodge up again to make good his regular allowance of air . and not till those seventy breath be tell , will he finally go down to stay out his full term below . remark , however , that in different individual these rate be different ; but in any one they be alike . now , why should the whale thus insist upon have his spouting out , unless it be to replenish his reservoir of air , ere descend for good ? how obvious be it , too , that this necessity for the whale 's rise expose he to all the fatal hazard of the chase . for not by hook or by net could this vast leviathan be catch , when sail a thousand fathom beneath the sunlight . not so much thy skill , then , o hunter , as the great necessity that strike the victory to thee !
in man , breathing be incessantly go on -- one breath only serve for two or three pulsation ; so that whatever other business he have to attend to , wake or sleep , breathe he must , or die he will . but the sperm whale only breathe about one seventh or sunday of his time .
it have be say that the whale only breathe through his spout - hole ; if it could truthfully be add that his spout be mix with water , then i opine we should be furnish with the reason why his sense of smell seems obliterate in he ; for the only thing about he that at all answer to his nose be that identical spout - hole ; and be so clogged with two element , it could not be expect to have the power of smell . but owe to the mystery of the spout -- whether it be water or whether it be vapour -- no absolute certainty can as yet be arrive at on this head . sure it be , nevertheless , that the sperm whale have no proper olfactorie . but what do he want of they ? no rose , no violet , no cologne - water in the sea .
furthermore , as his windpipe solely open into the tube of his spout canal , and as that long canal -- like the grand erie canal -- be furnish with a sort of lock ( that open and shut ) for the downward retention of air or the upward exclusion of water , therefore the whale have no voice ; unless you insult he by say , that when he so strangely rumble , he talk through his nose . but then again , what have the whale to say ? seldom have i know any profound being that have anything to say to this world , unless force to stammer out something by way of get a living . oh ! happy that the world be such an excellent listener !
now , the spout canal of the sperm whale , chiefly intend as it be for the conveyance of air , and for several foot lay along , horizontally , just beneath the upper surface of his head , and a little to one side ; this curious canal be very much like a gas - pipe lay down in a city on one side of a street . but the question return whether this gas - pipe be also a water - pipe ; in other word , whether the spout of the sperm whale be the mere vapour of the exhaled breath , or whether that exhaled breath be mix with water take in at the mouth , and discharge through the spiracle . it be certain that the mouth indirectly communicate with the spout canal ; but it can not be prove that this be for the purpose of discharge water through the spiracle . because the great necessity for so doing would seem to be , when in feed he accidentally take in water . but the sperm whale 's food be far beneath the surface , and there he can not spout even if he would . besides , if you regard he very closely , and time he with your watch , you will find that when unmoleste , there be an undeviating rhyme between the period of his jet and the ordinary period of respiration .
but why pester one with all this reasoning on the subject ? speak out ! you have see he spout ; then declare what the spout be ; can you not tell water from air ? my dear sir , in this world it be not so easy to settle these plain thing . i have ever find your plain thing the knotty of all . and as for this whale spout , you might almost stand in it , and yet be undecided as to what it be precisely .
the central body of it be hide in the snowy sparkling mist envelop it ; and how can you certainly tell whether any water fall from it , when , always , when you be close enough to a whale to get a close view of his spout , he be in a prodigious commotion , the water cascade all around he . and if at such time you should think that you really perceive drop of moisture in the spout , how do you know that they be not merely condense from its vapour ; or how do you know that they be not those identical drop superficially lodge in the spout - hole fissure , which be countersink into the summit of the whale 's head ? for even when tranquilly swim through the mid - day sea in a calm , with his elevated hump sun - dry as a dromedary 's in the desert ; even then , the whale always carry a small basin of water on his head , as under a blaze sun you will sometimes see a cavity in a rock fill up with rain .
nor be it at all prudent for the hunter to be over curious touch the precise nature of the whale spout . it will not do for he to be peer into it , and put his face in it . you can not go with your pitcher to this fountain and fill it , and bring it away . for even when come into slight contact with the outer , vapoury shred of the jet , which will often happen , your skin will feverishly smart , from the acridness of the thing so touch it . and i know one , who come into still close contact with the spout , whether with some scientific object in view , or otherwise , i can not say , the skin peel off from his cheek and arm . wherefore , among whaleman , the spout be deem poisonous ; they try to evade it . another thing ; i have hear it say , and i do not much doubt it , that if the jet be fairly spout into your eye , it will blind you . the wise thing the investigator can do then , it seem to i , be to let this deadly spout alone .
still , we can hypothesize , even if we can not prove and establish . my hypothesis be this : that the spout be nothing but mist . and besides other reason , to this conclusion i be impel , by consideration touch the great inherent dignity and sublimity of the sperm whale ; i account he no common , shallow being , inasmuch as it be an undisputed fact that he be never find on sounding , or near shore ; all other whale sometimes be . he be both ponderous and profound . and i be convince that from the head of all ponderous profound being , such as plato , pyrrho , the devil , jupiter , dante , and so on , there always go up a certain semi - visible steam , while in the act of think deep thought . while compose a little treatise on eternity , i have the curiosity to place a mirror before i ; and ere long see reflect there , a curious involve worming and undulation in the atmosphere over my head . the invariable moisture of my hair , while plunge in deep thought , after six cup of hot tea in my thin shingled attic , of an august noon ; this seem an additional argument for the above supposition .
and how nobly it raise our conceit of the mighty , misty monster , to behold he solemnly sail through a calm tropical sea ; his vast , mild head overhang by a canopy of vapour , engender by his incommunicable contemplation , and that vapour -- as you will sometimes see it -- glorify by a rainbow , as if heaven itself have put its seal upon his thought . for , d'ye see , rainbow do not visit the clear air ; they only irradiate vapour . and so , through all the thick mist of the dim doubt in my mind , divine intuition now and then shoot , enkindle my fog with a heavenly ray . and for this i thank god ; for all have doubt ; many deny ; but doubt or denial , few along with they , have intuition . doubt of all thing earthly , and intuition of some thing heavenly ; this combination make neither believer nor infidel , but make a man who regard they both with equal eye .
chapter 86
the tail .
other poet have warble the praise of the soft eye of the antelope , and the lovely plumage of the bird that never alight ; less celestial , i celebrate a tail .
reckon the large sized sperm whale 's tail to begin at that point of the trunk where it taper to about the girth of a man , it comprise upon its upper surface alone , an area of at least fifty square foot . the compact round body of its root expand into two broad , firm , flat palm or fluke , gradually shoal away to less than an inch in thickness . at the crotch or junction , these fluke slightly overlap , then sideways recede from each other like wing , leave a wide vacancy between . in no living thing be the line of beauty more exquisitely define than in the crescentic border of these fluke . at its utmost expansion in the full grown whale , the tail will considerably exceed twenty foot across .
the entire member seem a dense web bed of weld sinew ; but cut into it , and you find that three distinct strata compose it:--upper , middle , and low . the fibre in the upper and low layer , be long and horizontal ; those of the middle one , very short , and run crosswise between the outside layer . this triune structure , as much as anything else , impart power to the tail . to the student of old roman wall , the middle layer will furnish a curious parallel to the thin course of tile always alternate with the stone in those wonderful relic of the antique , and which undoubtedly contribute so much to the great strength of the masonry .
but as if this vast local power in the tendinous tail be not enough , the whole bulk of the leviathan be knit over with a warp and woof of muscular fibre and filament , which pass on either side the loin and run down into the fluke , insensibly blend with they , and largely contribute to their might ; so that in the tail the confluent measureless force of the whole whale seem concentrate to a point . could annihilation occur to matter , this be the thing to do it .
nor do this -- its amazing strength , at all tend to cripple the graceful flexion of its motion ; where infantileness of ease undulate through a titanism of power . on the contrary , those motion derive their most appalling beauty from it . real strength never impairs beauty or harmony , but it often bestow it ; and in everything imposingly beautiful , strength have much to do with the magic . take away the tie tendon that all over seem burst from the marble in the carve hercules , and its charm would be go . as devout eckerman lift the linen sheet from the naked corpse of goethe , he be overwhelm with the massive chest of the man , that seem as a roman triumphal arch . when angelo paint even god the father in human form , mark what robustness be there . and whatever they may reveal of the divine love in the son , the soft , curled , hermaphroditical italian picture , in which his idea have be most successfully embody ; these picture , so destitute as they be of all brawniness , hint nothing of any power , but the mere negative , feminine one of submission and endurance , which on all hand it be concede , form the peculiar practical virtue of his teaching .
such be the subtle elasticity of the organ i treat of , that whether wield in sport , or in earnest , or in anger , whatever be the mood it be in , its flexion be invariably mark by exceed grace . therein no fairy 's arm can transcend it .
five great motion be peculiar to it . first , when use as a fin for progression ; second , when use as a mace in battle ; third , in sweep ; fourth , in lobtailing ; fifth , in peak fluke .
first : be horizontal in its position , the leviathan 's tail act in a different manner from the tail of all other sea creature . it never wriggle . in man or fish , wriggling be a sign of inferiority . to the whale , his tail be the sole mean of propulsion . scroll - wise coil forwards beneath the body , and then rapidly spring backwards , it be this which give that singular darting , leap motion to the monster when furiously swim . his side - fin only serve to steer by .
second : it be a little significant , that while one sperm whale only fight another sperm whale with his head and jaw , nevertheless , in his conflict with man , he chiefly and contemptuously use his tail . in strike at a boat , he swiftly curve away his fluke from it , and the blow be only inflict by the recoil . if it be make in the unobstructed air , especially if it descend to its mark , the stroke be then simply irresistible . no rib of man or boat can withstand it . your only salvation lie in elude it ; but if it come sideways through the oppose water , then partly owe to the light buoyancy of the whale boat , and the elasticity of its material , a crack rib or a dash plank or two , a sort of stitch in the side , be generally the most serious result . these submerge side blow be so often receive in the fishery , that they be account mere child 's play . some one strip off a frock , and the hole be stop .
third : i can not demonstrate it , but it seem to i , that in the whale the sense of touch be concentrate in the tail ; for in this respect there be a delicacy in it only equal by the daintiness of the elephant 's trunk . this delicacy be chiefly evince in the action of sweep , when in maidenly gentleness the whale with a certain soft slowness move his immense fluke from side to side upon the surface of the sea ; and if he feel but a sailor 's whisker , woe to that sailor , whisker and all . what tenderness there be in that preliminary touch ! have this tail any prehensile power , i should straightway bethink i of darmonodes ' elephant that so frequent the flower - market , and with low salutation present nosegay to damsel , and then caress their zone . on more account than one , a pity it be that the whale do not possess this prehensile virtue in his tail ; for i have hear of yet another elephant , that when wound in the fight , curve round his trunk and extract the dart .
fourth : steal unaware upon the whale in the fancied security of the middle of solitary sea , you find he unbent from the vast corpulence of his dignity , and kitten - like , he play on the ocean as if it be a hearth . but still you see his power in his play . the broad palm of his tail be flirt high into the air ; then smite the surface , the thunderous concussion resound for mile . you would almost think a great gun have be discharge ; and if you notice the light wreath of vapour from the spiracle at his other extremity , you would think that that be the smoke from the touch - hole .
fifth : as in the ordinary float posture of the leviathan the fluke lie considerably below the level of his back , they be then completely out of sight beneath the surface ; but when he be about to plunge into the deep , his entire fluke with at least thirty foot of his body be toss erect in the air , and so remain vibrate a moment , till they downwards shoot out of view . except the sublime breach -- somewhere else to be describe -- this peaking of the whale 's fluke be perhaps the grand sight to be see in all animate nature . out of the bottomless profundity the gigantic tail seem spasmodically snatch at the high heaven . so in dream , have i see majestic satan thrust forth his torment colossal claw from the flame baltic of hell . but in gaze at such scene , it be all in all what mood you be in ; if in the dantean , the devil will occur to you ; if in that of isaiah , the archangel . stand at the mast - head of my ship during a sunrise that crimson sky and sea , i once see a large herd of whale in the east , all head towards the sun , and for a moment vibrate in concert with peaked fluke . as it seem to i at the time , such a grand embodiment of adoration of the god be never beheld , even in persia , the home of the fire worshipper . as ptolemy philopater testify of the african elephant , i then testify of the whale , pronounce he the most devout of all being . for accord to king juba , the military elephant of antiquity often hail the morning with their trunk uplifted in the profound silence .
the chance comparison in this chapter , between the whale and the elephant , so far as some aspect of the tail of the one and the trunk of the other be concern , should not tend to place those two opposite organ on an equality , much less the creature to which they respectively belong . for as the mighty elephant be but a terri to leviathan , so , compare with leviathan 's tail , his trunk be but the stalk of a lily . the most direful blow from the elephant 's trunk be as the playful tap of a fan , compare with the measureless crush and crash of the sperm whale 's ponderous fluke , which in repeat instance have one after the other hurled entire boat with all their oar and crew into the air , very much as an indian juggler toss his ball . *
* though all comparison in the way of general bulk between the whale and the elephant be preposterous , inasmuch as in that particular the elephant stand in much the same respect to the whale that a dog do to the elephant ; nevertheless , there be not want some point of curious similitude ; among these be the spout . it be well know that the elephant will often draw up water or dust in his trunk , and then elevate it , jet it forth in a stream .
the more i consider this mighty tail , the more do i deplore my inability to express it . at time there be gesture in it , which , though they would well grace the hand of man , remain wholly inexplicable . in an extensive herd , so remarkable , occasionally , be these mystic gesture , that i have hear hunter who have declare they akin to free - mason sign and symbol ; that the whale , indeed , by these method intelligently converse with the world . nor be there want other motion of the whale in his general body , full of strangeness , and unaccountable to his most experienced assailant . dissect he how i may , then , i but go skin deep ; i know he not , and never will . but if i know not even the tail of this whale , how understand his head ? much more , how comprehend his face , when face he have none ? thou shalt see my back part , my tail , he seem to say , but my face shall not be see . but i can not completely make out his back part ; and hint what he will about his face , i say again he have no face .
chapter 87
the grand armada .
the long and narrow peninsula of malacca , extend south - eastward from the territory of birmah , form the most southerly point of all asia . in a continuous line from that peninsula stretch the long island of sumatra , java , bally , and timor ; which , with many other , form a vast mole , or rampart , lengthwise connect asia with australia , and divide the long unbroken indian ocean from the thickly stud oriental archipelago . this rampart be pierce by several sally - port for the convenience of ship and whale ; conspicuous among which be the strait of sunda and malacca . by the strait of sunda , chiefly , vessel bind to china from the west , emerge into the china sea .
those narrow strait of sunda divide sumatra from java ; and stand midway in that vast rampart of island , buttress by that bold green promontory , know to seaman as java head ; they not a little correspond to the central gateway opening into some vast walled empire : and consider the inexhaustible wealth of spice , and silk , and jewel , and gold , and ivory , with which the thousand island of that oriental sea be enrich , it seem a significant provision of nature , that such treasure , by the very formation of the land , should at least bear the appearance , however ineffectual , of be guard from the all - grasp western world . the shore of the straits of sunda be unsupplie with those domineering fortress which guard the entrance to the mediterranean , the baltic , and the propontis . unlike the danes , these orientals do not demand the obsequious homage of lower top - sail from the endless procession of ship before the wind , which for century past , by night and by day , have pass between the island of sumatra and java , freight with the costly cargo of the east . but while they freely waive a ceremonial like this , they do by no mean renounce their claim to more solid tribute .
time out of mind the piratical proas of the malays , lurk among the low shade cove and islet of sumatra , have sally out upon the vessel sail through the strait , fiercely demand tribute at the point of their spear . though by the repeat bloody chastisement they have receive at the hand of european cruiser , the audacity of these corsair have of late be somewhat repressed ; yet , even at the present day , we occasionally hear of english and american vessel , which , in those water , have be remorselessly board and pillage .
with a fair , fresh wind , the pequod be now draw nigh to these strait ; ahab purpose to pass through they into the javan sea , and thence , cruise northward , over water know to be frequent here and there by the sperm whale , sweep inshore by the philippine islands , and gain the far coast of japan , in time for the great whaling season there . by these mean , the circumnavigating pequod would sweep almost all the know sperm whale cruising ground of the world , previous to descend upon the line in the pacific ; where ahab , though everywhere else foil in his pursuit , firmly count upon give battle to moby dick , in the sea he be most know to frequent ; and at a season when he might most reasonably be presume to be haunt it .
but how now ? in this zone quest , do ahab touch no land ? do his crew drink air ? surely , he will stop for water . nay . for a long time , now , the circus - run sun have race within his fiery ring , and need no sustenance but what be in himself . so ahab . mark this , too , in the whaler . while other hull be load down with alien stuff , to be transfer to foreign wharf ; the world - wander whale - ship carry no cargo but herself and crew , their weapon and their want . she have a whole lake 's content bottle in her ample hold . she be ballast with utility ; not altogether with unusable pig - lead and kentledge . she carry year ' water in she . clear old prime nantucket water ; which , when three year afloat , the nantucketer , in the pacific , prefer to drink before the brackish fluid , but yesterday raft off in cask , from the peruvian or indian stream . hence it be , that , while other ship may have go to china from new york , and back again , touch at a score of port , the whale - ship , in all that interval , may not have sight one grain of soil ; her crew having see no man but float seaman like themselves . so that do you carry they the news that another flood have come ; they would only answer--"well , boy , here be the ark ! "
now , as many sperm whales have be capture off the western coast of java , in the near vicinity of the straits of sunda ; indeed , as most of the ground , roundabout , be generally recognise by the fisherman as an excellent spot for cruise ; therefore , as the pequod gain more and more upon java head , the look - out be repeatedly hail , and admonish to keep wide awake . but though the green palmy cliff of the land soon loom on the starboard bow , and with delighted nostril the fresh cinnamon be snuff in the air , yet not a single jet be descry . almost renounce all thought of fall in with any game hereabouts , the ship have well nigh enter the strait , when the customary cheer cry be hear from aloft , and ere long a spectacle of singular magnificence salute we .
but here be it premise , that owe to the unwearied activity with which of late they have be hunt over all four ocean , the sperm whales , instead of almost invariably sail in small detach company , as in former time , be now frequently meet with in extensive herd , sometimes embrace so great a multitude , that it would almost seem as if numerous nation of they have swear solemn league and covenant for mutual assistance and protection . to this aggregation of the sperm whale into such immense caravan , may be impute the circumstance that even in the good cruising ground , you may now sometimes sail for week and month together , without be greet by a single spout ; and then be suddenly salute by what sometimes seem thousand on thousand .
broad on both bow , at the distance of some two or three mile , and form a great semicircle , embrace one half of the level horizon , a continuous chain of whale - jet be up - play and sparkle in the noon - day air . unlike the straight perpendicular twin - jet of the right whale , which , divide at top , fall over in two branch , like the cleft droop bough of a willow , the single forward - slant spout of the sperm whale present a thick curled bush of white mist , continually rise and fall away to leeward .
see from the pequod 's deck , then , as she would rise on a high hill of the sea , this host of vapoury spout , individually curl up into the air , and behold through a blend atmosphere of bluish haze , show like the thousand cheerful chimney of some dense metropolis , descry of a balmy autumnal morning , by some horseman on a height .
as march army approach an unfriendly defile in the mountain , accelerate their march , all eagerness to place that perilous passage in their rear , and once more expand in comparative security upon the plain ; even so do this vast fleet of whale now seem hurry forward through the strait ; gradually contract the wing of their semicircle , and swim on , in one solid , but still crescentic centre .
crowd all sail the pequod press after they ; the harpooneer handle their weapon , and loudly cheer from the head of their yet suspend boat . if the wind only hold , little doubt have they , that chase through these straits of sunda , the vast host would only deploy into the oriental sea to witness the capture of not a few of their number . and who could tell whether , in that congregated caravan , moby dick himself might not temporarily be swim , like the worship white - elephant in the coronation procession of the siamese ! so with stun - sail pile on stun - sail , we sail along , drive these leviathan before we ; when , of a sudden , the voice of tashtego be hear , loudly direct attention to something in our wake .
correspond to the crescent in our van , we behold another in our rear . it seem form of detach white vapour , rise and fall something like the spout of the whale ; only they do not so completely come and go ; for they constantly hover , without finally disappear . level his glass at this sight , ahab quickly revolve in his pivot - hole , cry , " aloft there , and rig whip and bucket to wet the sails;--malay , sir , and after we ! "
as if too long lurk behind the headland , till the pequod should fairly have enter the strait , these rascally asiatics be now in hot pursuit , to make up for their over - cautious delay . but when the swift pequod , with a fresh lead wind , be herself in hot chase ; how very kind of these tawny philanthropist to assist in speed she on to her own choose pursuit,--mere riding - whip and rowel to she , that they be . as with glass under arm , ahab to - and - fro pace the deck ; in his forward turn behold the monster he chase , and in the after one the bloodthirsty pirate chase he ; some such fancy as the above seem his . and when he glance upon the green wall of the watery defile in which the ship be then sail , and bethink he that through that gate lie the route to his vengeance , and beheld , how that through that same gate he be now both chase and be chase to his deadly end ; and not only that , but a herd of remorseless wild pirate and inhuman atheistical devil be infernally cheer he on with their curses;--when all these conceit have pass through his brain , ahab 's brow be leave gaunt and rib , like the black sand beach after some stormy tide have be gnaw it , without be able to drag the firm thing from its place .
but thought like these trouble very few of the reckless crew ; and when , after steadily drop and drop the pirate astern , the pequod at last shot by the vivid green cockatoo point on the sumatra side , emerge at last upon the broad water beyond ; then , the harpooneer seem more to grieve that the swift whale have be gain upon the ship , than to rejoice that the ship have so victoriously gain upon the malays . but still drive on in the wake of the whale , at length they seem abate their speed ; gradually the ship near they ; and the wind now die away , word be pass to spring to the boat . but no soon do the herd , by some presume wonderful instinct of the sperm whale , become notify of the three keel that be after them,--though as yet a mile in their rear,--than they rally again , and form in close rank and battalion , so that their spout all look like flash line of stacked bayonet , move on with redoubled velocity .
strip to our shirt and drawer , we spring to the white - ash , and after several hour ' pulling be almost disposed to renounce the chase , when a general pausing commotion among the whale give animating token that they be now at last under the influence of that strange perplexity of inert irresolution , which , when the fisherman perceive it in the whale , they say he be gallie . the compact martial column in which they have be hitherto rapidly and steadily swimming , be now break up in one measureless rout ; and like king porus ' elephant in the indian battle with alexander , they seem go mad with consternation . in all direction expand in vast irregular circle , and aimlessly swim hither and thither , by their short thick spouting , they plainly betray their distraction of panic . this be still more strangely evince by those of their number , who , completely paralysed as it be , helplessly float like water - log dismantle ship on the sea . have these leviathans be but a flock of simple sheep , pursue over the pasture by three fierce wolf , they could not possibly have evince such excessive dismay . but this occasional timidity be characteristic of almost all herding creature . though band together in ten of thousand , the lion - man buffalo of the west have flee before a solitary horseman . witness , too , all human being , how when herd together in the sheepfold of a theatre 's pit , they will , at the slight alarm of fire , rush helter - skelter for the outlet , crowding , trampling , jamming , and remorselessly dash each other to death . well , therefore , withhold any amazement at the strangely gallie whale before we , for there be no folly of the beast of the earth which be not infinitely outdo by the madness of man .
though many of the whale , as have be say , be in violent motion , yet it be to be observe that as a whole the herd neither advanced nor retreat , but collectively remain in one place . as be customary in those case , the boat at once separate , each making for some one lone whale on the outskirt of the shoal . in about three minute ' time , queequeg 's harpoon be fling ; the stricken fish dart blind spray in our face , and then run away with we like light , steer straight for the heart of the herd . though such a movement on the part of the whale strike under such circumstance , be in no wise unprecedented ; and indeed be almost always more or less anticipate ; yet do it present one of the more perilous vicissitude of the fishery . for as the swift monster drag you deep and deep into the frantic shoal , you bid adieu to circumspect life and only exist in a delirious throb .
as , blind and deaf , the whale plunge forward , as if by sheer power of speed to rid himself of the iron leech that have fasten to he ; as we thus tear a white gash in the sea , on all side menace as we fly , by the craze creature to and fro rush about we ; our beset boat be like a ship mob by ice - isle in a temp , and strive to steer through their complicated channel and strait , know not at what moment it may be lock in and crush .
but not a bit daunt , queequeg steer we manfully ; now sheer off from this monster directly across our route in advance ; now edge away from that , whose colossal fluke be suspend overhead , while all the time , starbuck stand up in the bow , lance in hand , prick out of our way whatever whale he could reach by short dart , for there be no time to make long one . nor be the oarsman quite idle , though their wonte duty be now altogether dispense with . they chiefly attend to the shout part of the business . " out of the way , commodore ! " cry one , to a great dromedary that of a sudden rise bodily to the surface , and for an instant threaten to swamp we . " hard down with your tail , there ! " cry a second to another , which , close to our gunwale , seem calmly cool himself with his own fan - like extremity .
all whaleboat carry certain curious contrivance , originally invent by the nantucket indians , call druggs . two thick square of wood of equal size be stoutly clench together , so that they cross each other 's grain at right angle ; a line of considerable length be then attach to the middle of this block , and the other end of the line be loop , it can in a moment be fasten to a harpoon . it be chiefly among gallie whale that this drugg be use . for then , more whale be close round you than you can possibly chase at one time . but sperm whale be not every day encounter ; while you may , then , you must kill all you can . and if you can not kill they all at once , you must wing they , so that they can be afterwards kill at your leisure . hence it be , that at time like these the drugg , come into requisition . our boat be furnish with three of they . the first and second be successfully dart , and we see the whale staggeringly run off , fetter by the enormous sidelong resistance of the tow drugg . they be cramp like malefactor with the chain and ball . but upon fling the third , in the act of toss overboard the clumsy wooden block , it catch under one of the seat of the boat , and in an instant tear it out and carry it away , drop the oarsman in the boat 's bottom as the seat slide from under he . on both side the sea come in at the wound plank , but we stuff two or three drawer and shirt in , and so stop the leak for the time .
it have be next to impossible to dart these drug - harpoon , be it not that as we advance into the herd , our whale 's way greatly diminish ; moreover , that as we go still far and far from the circumference of commotion , the direful disorder seem wan . so that when at last the jerk harpoon draw out , and the tow whale sideways vanish ; then , with the taper force of his parting momentum , we glide between two whale into the innermost heart of the shoal , as if from some mountain torrent we have slide into a serene valley lake . here the storm in the roar glen between the outermost whale , be hear but not feel . in this central expanse the sea present that smooth satin - like surface , call a sleek , produce by the subtle moisture throw off by the whale in his more quiet mood . yes , we be now in that enchant calm which they say lurk at the heart of every commotion . and still in the distracted distance we behold the tumult of the outer concentric circle , and see successive pod of whale , eight or ten in each , swiftly go round and round , like multiply span of horse in a ring ; and so closely shoulder to shoulder , that a titanic circus - rider might easily have over - arch the middle one , and so have go round on their back . owe to the density of the crowd of repose whale , more immediately surround the embaye axis of the herd , no possible chance of escape be at present afford we . we must watch for a breach in the live wall that hem we in ; the wall that have only admit we in order to shut we up . keep at the centre of the lake , we be occasionally visit by small tame cow and calf ; the woman and child of this rout host .
now , inclusive of the occasional wide interval between the revolving outer circle , and inclusive of the space between the various pod in any one of those circle , the entire area at this juncture , embrace by the whole multitude , must have contain at least two or three square mile . at any rate -- though indeed such a test at such a time might be deceptive -- spouting might be discover from our low boat that seem play up almost from the rim of the horizon . i mention this circumstance , because , as if the cow and calf have be purposely lock up in this innermost fold ; and as if the wide extent of the herd have hitherto prevent they from learn the precise cause of its stopping ; or , possibly , be so young , unsophisticated , and every way innocent and inexperienced ; however it may have be , these small whale -- now and then visit our becalm boat from the margin of the lake -- evince a wondrous fearlessness and confidence , or else a still becharm panic which it be impossible not to marvel at . like household dog they came snuffle round we , right up to our gunwale , and touch they ; till it almost seem that some spell have suddenly domesticate they . queequeg pat their forehead ; starbuck scratch their back with his lance ; but fearful of the consequence , for the time refrain from dart it .
but far beneath this wondrous world upon the surface , another and still strange world meet our eye as we gaze over the side . for , suspend in those watery vault , float the form of the nursing mother of the whale , and those that by their enormous girth seem shortly to become mother . the lake , as i have hint , be to a considerable depth exceedingly transparent ; and as human infant while suckle will calmly and fixedly gaze away from the breast , as if lead two different life at the time ; and while yet draw mortal nourishment , be still spiritually feast upon some unearthly reminiscence;--even so do the young of these whale seem look up towards we , but not at we , as if we be but a bit of gulfweed in their new - bear sight . float on their side , the mother also seem quietly eye we . one of these little infant , that from certain queer token seem hardly a day old , might have measure some fourteen foot in length , and some six foot in girth . he be a little frisky ; though as yet his body seem scarce yet recover from that irksome position it have so lately occupy in the maternal reticule ; where , tail to head , and all ready for the final spring , the unborn whale lie bent like a tartar 's bow . the delicate side - fin , and the palm of his fluke , still freshly retain the plait crumple appearance of a baby 's ear newly arrive from foreign part .
" line ! line ! " cry queequeg , look over the gunwale ; " he fast ! he fast!--who line he ! who struck?--two whale ; one big , one little ! "
" what ail ye , man ? " cry starbuck .
" look - e here , " say queequeg , point down .
as when the stricken whale , that from the tub have reel out hundred of fathom of rope ; as , after deep sounding , he float up again , and show the slacken curl line buoyantly rise and spiral towards the air ; so now , starbuck see long coil of the umbilical cord of madame leviathan , by which the young cub seem still tethered to its dam . not seldom in the rapid vicissitude of the chase , this natural line , with the maternal end loose , becomes entangle with the hempen one , so that the cub be thereby trap . some of the subtle secret of the sea seem divulge to we in this enchanted pond . we see young leviathan amour in the deep . *
* the sperm whale , as with all other specie of the leviathan , but unlike most other fish , breed indifferently at all season ; after a gestation which may probably be set down at nine month , produce but one at a time ; though in some few know instance give birth to an esau and jacob:--a contingency provide for in suckle by two teat , curiously situate , one on each side of the anus ; but the breast themselves extend upwards from that . when by chance these precious part in a nursing whale be cut by the hunter 's lance , the mother 's pour milk and blood rivallingly discolour the sea for rod . the milk be very sweet and rich ; it have be taste by man ; it might do well with strawberry . when overflow with mutual esteem , the whale salute more hominum .
and thus , though surround by circle upon circle of consternation and affright , do these inscrutable creature at the centre freely and fearlessly indulge in all peaceful concernment ; yea , serenely revel in dalliance and delight . but even so , amid the tornadoed atlantic of my being , do i myself still for ever centrally disport in mute calm ; and while ponderous planet of unwane woe revolve round i , deep down and deep inland there i still bathe i in eternal mildness of joy .
meanwhile , as we thus lie entrance , the occasional sudden frantic spectacle in the distance evince the activity of the other boat , still engage in drug the whale on the frontier of the host ; or possibly carry on the war within the first circle , where abundance of room and some convenient retreat be afford they . but the sight of the enrage drug whale now and then blindly dart to and fro across the circle , be nothing to what at last meet our eye . it be sometimes the custom when fast to a whale more than commonly powerful and alert , to seek to hamstre he , as it be , by sunder or maim his gigantic tail - tendon . it be do by dart a short - handle cutting - spade , to which be attach a rope for haul it back again . a whale wound ( as we afterwards learn ) in this part , but not effectually , as it seem , have break away from the boat , carry along with he half of the harpoon line ; and in the extraordinary agony of the wound , he be now dash among the revolve circle like the lone mount desperado arnold , at the battle of saratoga , carry dismay wherever he go .
but agonizing as be the wound of this whale , and an appalling spectacle enough , any way ; yet the peculiar horror with which he seem to inspire the rest of the herd , be owe to a cause which at first the intervene distance obscure from we . but at length we perceive that by one of the unimaginable accident of the fishery , this whale have become entangle in the harpoon - line that he tow ; he have also run away with the cutting - spade in he ; and while the free end of the rope attach to that weapon , have permanently catch in the coil of the harpoon - line round his tail , the cutting - spade itself have work loose from his flesh . so that torment to madness , he be now churn through the water , violently flail with his flexible tail , and toss the keen spade about he , wound and murder his own comrade .
this terrific object seem to recall the whole herd from their stationary fright . first , the whale form the margin of our lake begin to crowd a little , and tumble against each other , as if lift by half spend billow from afar ; then the lake itself begin faintly to heave and swell ; the submarine bridal - chamber and nursery vanish ; in more and more contracting orbit the whale in the more central circle begin to swim in thickening cluster . yes , the long calm be depart . a low advance hum be soon hear ; and then like to the tumultuous mass of block - ice when the great river hudson break up in spring , the entire host of whale came tumble upon their inner centre , as if to pile themselves up in one common mountain . instantly starbuck and queequeg change place ; starbuck take the stern .
" oars ! oars ! " he intensely whisper , seize the helm--"gripe your oar , and clutch your soul , now ! my god , man , stand by ! shove he off , you queequeg -- the whale there!--prick him!--hit he ! stand up -- stand up , and stay so ! spring , man -- pull , man ; never mind their back -- scrape them!--scrape away ! "
the boat be now all but jam between two vast black bulk , leave a narrow dardanelles between their long length . but by desperate endeavor we at last shot into a temporary opening ; then give way rapidly , and at the same time earnestly watch for another outlet . after many similar hair - breadth escape , we at last swiftly glide into what have just be one of the outer circle , but now cross by random whale , all violently make for one centre . this lucky salvation be cheaply purchase by the loss of queequeg 's hat , who , while stand in the bow to prick the fugitive whale , have his hat take clean from his head by the air - eddy make by the sudden tossing of a pair of broad fluke close by .
riotous and disorder as the universal commotion now be , it soon resolve itself into what seem a systematic movement ; for having clump together at last in one dense body , they then renew their onward flight with augmented fleetness . further pursuit be useless ; but the boat still linger in their wake to pick up what drug whale might be drop astern , and likewise to secure one which flask have kill and waife . the waif be a pennone pole , two or three of which be carry by every boat ; and which , when additional game be at hand , be insert upright into the float body of a dead whale , both to mark its place on the sea , and also as token of prior possession , should the boat of any other ship draw near .
the result of this lowering be somewhat illustrative of that sagacious saying in the fishery,--the more whale the less fish . of all the drug whale only one be capture . the rest contrive to escape for the time , but only to be take , as will hereafter be see , by some other craft than the pequod .
chapter 88
school and schoolmasters .
the previous chapter give account of an immense body or herd of sperm whales , and there be also then give the probable cause induce those vast aggregation .
now , though such great body be at time encounter , yet , as must have be see , even at the present day , small detach band be occasionally observe , embrace from twenty to fifty individual each . such band be know as school . they generally be of two sort ; those compose almost entirely of female , and those muster none but young vigorous male , or bull , as they be familiarly designate .
in cavalier attendance upon the school of female , you invariably see a male of full grown magnitude , but not old ; who , upon any alarm , evince his gallantry by fall in the rear and cover the flight of his lady . in truth , this gentleman be a luxurious ottoman , swim about over the watery world , surroundingly accompany by all the solace and endearment of the harem . the contrast between this ottoman and his concubine be strike ; because , while he be always of the large leviathanic proportion , the lady , even at full growth , be not more than one - third of the bulk of an average - sized male . they be comparatively delicate , indeed ; i dare say , not to exceed half a dozen yard round the waist . nevertheless , it can not be deny , that upon the whole they be hereditarily entitle to embonpoint .
it be very curious to watch this harem and its lord in their indolent rambling . like fashionable , they be for ever on the move in leisurely search of variety . you meet they on the line in time for the full flower of the equatorial feeding season , having just return , perhaps , from spend the summer in the northern sea , and so cheat summer of all unpleasant weariness and warmth . by the time they have lounge up and down the promenade of the equator awhile , they start for the oriental water in anticipation of the cool season there , and so evade the other excessive temperature of the year .
when serenely advance on one of these journey , if any strange suspicious sight be see , my lord whale keep a wary eye on his interesting family . should any unwarrantably pert young leviathan come that way , presume to draw confidentially close to one of the lady , with what prodigious fury the bashaw assail he , and chase he away ! high time , indeed , if unprincipled young rake like he be to be permit to invade the sanctity of domestic bliss ; though do what the bashaw will , he can not keep the most notorious lothario out of his bed ; for , alas ! all fish bed in common . as ashore , the lady often cause the most terrible duel among their rival admirer ; just so with the whale , who sometimes come to deadly battle , and all for love . they fence with their long low jaw , sometimes lock they together , and so strive for the supremacy like elk that warringly interweave their antler . not a few be capture have the deep scar of these encounters,--furrowed head , broken tooth , scollop fin ; and in some instance , wrench and dislocated mouth .
but suppose the invader of domestic bliss to betake himself away at the first rush of the harem 's lord , then be it very divert to watch that lord . gently he insinuate his vast bulk among they again and revel there awhile , still in tantalize vicinity to young lothario , like pious solomon devoutly worship among his thousand concubine . grant other whale to be in sight , the fisherman will seldom give chase to one of these grand turks ; for these grand turks be too lavish of their strength , and hence their unctuousness be small . as for the son and the daughter they beget , why , those son and daughter must take care of themselves ; at least , with only the maternal help . for like certain other omnivorous roving lover that might be name , my lord whale have no taste for the nursery , however much for the bower ; and so , be a great traveller , he leave his anonymous baby all over the world ; every baby an exotic . in good time , nevertheless , as the ardour of youth decline ; as year and dump increase ; as reflection lend her solemn pause ; in short , as a general lassitude overtake the sated turk ; then a love of ease and virtue supplant the love for maiden ; our ottoman enter upon the impotent , repentant , admonitory stage of life , forswear , disband the harem , and grow to an exemplary , sulky old soul , go about all alone among the meridian and parallel say his prayer , and warn each young leviathan from his amorous error .
now , as the harem of whale be call by the fisherman a school , so be the lord and master of that school technically know as the schoolmaster . it be therefore not in strict character , however admirably satirical , that after go to school himself , he should then go abroad inculcate not what he learn there , but the folly of it . his title , schoolmaster , would very naturally seem derive from the name bestow upon the harem itself , but some have surmise that the man who first thus entitle this sort of ottoman whale , must have read the memoir of vidocq , and inform himself what sort of a country - schoolmaster that famous frenchman be in his young day , and what be the nature of those occult lesson he inculcate into some of his pupil .
the same secludedness and isolation to which the schoolmaster whale betake himself in his advance year , be true of all aged sperm whales . almost universally , a lone whale -- as a solitary leviathan be call -- prove an ancient one . like venerable moss - bearded daniel boone , he will have no one near he but nature herself ; and she he take to wife in the wilderness of water , and the good of wife she be , though she keep so many moody secret .
the school compose none but young and vigorous male , previously mention , offer a strong contrast to the harem school . for while those female whale be characteristically timid , the young male , or forty - barrel - bull , as they call they , be by far the most pugnacious of all leviathans , and proverbially the most dangerous to encounter ; except those wondrous grey - head , grizzle whale , sometimes meet , and these will fight you like grim fiend exasperate by a penal gout .
the forty - barrel - bull school be large than the harem school . like a mob of young collegian , they be full of fight , fun , and wickedness , tumble round the world at such a reckless , rollicking rate , that no prudent underwriter would insure they any more than he would a riotous lad at yale or harvard . they soon relinquish this turbulence though , and when about three - fourth grown , break up , and separately go about in quest of settlement , that is , harem .
another point of difference between the male and female school be still more characteristic of the sex . say you strike a forty - barrel - bull -- poor devil ! all his comrade quit he . but strike a member of the harem school , and her companion swim around she with every token of concern , sometimes linger so near she and so long , as themselves to fall a prey .
chapter 89
fast - fish and loose - fish .
the allusion to the waif and waif - pole in the last chapter but one , necessitate some account of the law and regulation of the whale fishery , of which the waif may be deem the grand symbol and badge .
it frequently happen that when several ship be cruise in company , a whale may be strike by one vessel , then escape , and be finally kill and capture by another vessel ; and herein be indirectly comprise many minor contingency , all partake of this one grand feature . for example,--after a weary and perilous chase and capture of a whale , the body may get loose from the ship by reason of a violent storm ; and drift far away to leeward , be retake by a second whaler , who , in a calm , snugly tow it alongside , without risk of life or line . thus the most vexatious and violent dispute would often arise between the fisherman , be there not some write or unwritten , universal , undisputed law applicable to all case .
perhaps the only formal whaling code authorize by legislative enactment , be that of holland . it be decree by the states - general in a.d. 1695 . but though no other nation have ever have any write whaling law , yet the american fisherman have be their own legislator and lawyer in this matter . they have provide a system which for terse comprehensiveness surpass justinian 's pandects and the by - law of the chinese society for the suppression of meddling with other people 's business . yes ; these law might be engraven on a queen anne 's forthing , or the barb of a harpoon , and wear round the neck , so small be they .
i. a fast - fish belong to the party fast to it .
ii . a loose - fish be fair game for anybody who can soon catch it .
but what play the mischief with this masterly code be the admirable brevity of it , which necessitate a vast volume of commentary to expound it .
first : what be a fast - fish ? alive or dead a fish be technically fast , when it be connect with an occupy ship or boat , by any medium at all controllable by the occupant or occupants,--a mast , an oar , a nine - inch cable , a telegraph wire , or a strand of cobweb , it be all the same . likewise a fish be technically fast when it bear a waif , or any other recognise symbol of possession ; so long as the party waife it plainly evince their ability at any time to take it alongside , as well as their intention so to do .
these be scientific commentary ; but the commentary of the whaleman themselves sometimes consist in hard word and hard knock -- the coke - upon - littleton of the fist . true , among the more upright and honourable whaleman allowance be always make for peculiar case , where it would be an outrageous moral injustice for one party to claim possession of a whale previously chase or kill by another party . but other be by no mean so scrupulous .
some fifty year ago there be a curious case of whale - trover litigate in england , wherein the plaintiff set forth that after a hard chase of a whale in the northern sea ; and when indeed they ( the plaintiff ) have succeed in harpoon the fish ; they be at last , through peril of their life , oblige to forsake not only their line , but their boat itself . ultimately the defendant ( the crew of another ship ) come up with the whale , strike , kill , seize , and finally appropriate it before the very eye of the plaintiff . and when those defendant be remonstrate with , their captain snap his finger in the plaintiff ' tooth , and assure they that by way of doxology to the deed he have do , he would now retain their line , harpoon , and boat , which have remain attach to the whale at the time of the seizure . wherefore the plaintiff now sue for the recovery of the value of their whale , line , harpoon , and boat .
mr. erskine be counsel for the defendant ; lord ellenborough be the judge . in the course of the defence , the witty erskine go on to illustrate his position , by allude to a recent crim . con . case , wherein a gentleman , after in vain try to bridle his wife 's viciousness , have at last abandon she upon the sea of life ; but in the course of year , repent of that step , he institute an action to recover possession of she . erskine be on the other side ; and he then support it by say , that though the gentleman have originally harpoon the lady , and have once have she fast , and only by reason of the great stress of she plunge viciousness , have at last abandon she ; yet abandon she he do , so that she become a loose - fish ; and therefore when a subsequent gentleman re - harpoon she , the lady then become that subsequent gentleman 's property , along with whatever harpoon might have be find stick in she .
now in the present case erskine contend that the example of the whale and the lady be reciprocally illustrative of each other .
these pleading , and the counter pleading , be duly hear , the very learn judge in set term decide , to wit,--that as for the boat , he award it to the plaintiff , because they have merely abandon it to save their life ; but that with regard to the controvert whale , harpoon , and line , they belong to the defendant ; the whale , because it be a loose - fish at the time of the final capture ; and the harpoon and line because when the fish make off with they , it ( the fish ) acquire a property in those article ; and hence anybody who afterwards take the fish have a right to they . now the defendant afterwards take the fish ; ergo , the aforesaid article be theirs .
a common man look at this decision of the very learn judge , might possibly object to it . but plough up to the primary rock of the matter , the two great principle lay down in the twin whale law previously quote , and apply and elucidate by lord ellenborough in the above cite case ; these two law touch fast - fish and loose - fish , i say , will , on reflection , be find the fundamental of all human jurisprudence ; for notwithstanding its complicated tracery of sculpture , the temple of the law , like the temple of the philistines , have but two prop to stand on .
be it not a saying in every one 's mouth , possession be half of the law : that be , regardless of how the thing come into possession ? but often possession be the whole of the law . what be the sinew and soul of russian serf and republican slave but fast - fish , whereof possession be the whole of the law ? what to the rapacious landlord be the widow 's last mite but a fast - fish ? what be yonder undetected villain 's marble mansion with a door - plate for a waif ; what be that but a fast - fish ? what be the ruinous discount which mordecai , the broker , get from poor woebegone , the bankrupt , on a loan to keep woebegone 's family from starvation ; what be that ruinous discount but a fast - fish ? what be the archbishop of savesoul 's income of l100,000 seize from the scant bread and cheese of hundred of thousand of break - back laborer ( all sure of heaven without any of savesoul 's help ) what be that globular l100,000 but a fast - fish ? what be the duke of dunder 's hereditary town and hamlet but fast - fish ? what to that redoubte harpooneer , john bull , be poor ireland , but a fast - fish ? what to that apostolic lancer , brother jonathan , be texas but a fast - fish ? and concern all these , be not possession the whole of the law ?
but if the doctrine of fast - fish be pretty generally applicable , the kindre doctrine of loose - fish be still more widely so . that be internationally and universally applicable .
what be america in 1492 but a loose - fish , in which columbus strike the spanish standard by way of waife it for his royal master and mistress ? what be poland to the czar ? what greece to the turk ? what india to england ? what at last will mexico be to the united states ? all loose - fish .
what be the rights of man and the liberties of the world but loose - fish ? what all man 's mind and opinion but loose - fish ? what be the principle of religious belief in they but a loose - fish ? what to the ostentatious smuggling verbalist be the thought of thinker but loose - fish ? what be the great globe itself but a loose - fish ? and what be you , reader , but a loose - fish and a fast - fish , too ?
chapter 90
head or tail .
" de balena vero sufficit , si rex habeat caput , et regina caudam . " bracton , l. 3 , c. 3 .
latin from the book of the laws of england , which take along with the context , mean , that of all whale capture by anybody on the coast of that land , the king , as honourary grand harpooneer , must have the head , and the queen be respectfully present with the tail . a division which , in the whale , be much like halve an apple ; there be no intermediate remainder . now as this law , under a modify form , be to this day in force in england ; and as it offer in various respect a strange anomaly touch the general law of fast and loose - fish , it be here treat of in a separate chapter , on the same courteous principle that prompt the english railway to be at the expense of a separate car , specially reserve for the accommodation of royalty . in the first place , in curious proof of the fact that the above - mention law be still in force , i proceed to lay before you a circumstance that happen within the last two year .
it seem that some honest mariner of dover , or sandwich , or some one of the cinque ports , have after a hard chase succeed in kill and beach a fine whale which they have originally descry afar off from the shore . now the cinque ports be partially or somehow under the jurisdiction of a sort of policeman or beadle , call a lord warden . hold the office directly from the crown , i believe , all the royal emolument incident to the cinque port territory become by assignment his . by some writer this office be call a sinecure . but not so . because the lord warden be busily employ at time in fob his perquisite ; which be his chiefly by virtue of that same fobbing of they .
now when these poor sun - burn mariner , bare - footed , and with their trowser roll high up on their eely leg , have wearily haul their fat fish high and dry , promise themselves a good l150 from the precious oil and bone ; and in fantasy sip rare tea with their wife , and good ale with their crony , upon the strength of their respective share ; up step a very learn and most christian and charitable gentleman , with a copy of blackstone under his arm ; and lay it upon the whale 's head , he says--"hand off ! this fish , my master , be a fast - fish . i seize it as the lord warden 's . " upon this the poor mariner in their respectful consternation -- so truly english -- know not what to say , fall to vigorously scratch their head all round ; meanwhile ruefully glance from the whale to the stranger . but that do in nowise mend the matter , or at all soften the hard heart of the learn gentleman with the copy of blackstone . at length one of they , after long scratch about for his idea , make bold to speak ,
" please , sir , who be the lord warden ? "
" the duke . "
" but the duke have nothing to do with take this fish ? "
" it be his . "
" we have be at great trouble , and peril , and some expense , and be all that to go to the duke 's benefit ; we get nothing at all for our pain but our blister ? "
" it be his . "
" be the duke so very poor as to be force to this desperate mode of get a livelihood ? "
" it be his . "
" i think to relieve my old bed - ride mother by part of my share of this whale . "
" it be his . "
" will not the duke be content with a quarter or a half ? "
" it be his . "
in a word , the whale be seize and sell , and his grace the duke of wellington receive the money . think that view in some particular light , the case might by a bare possibility in some small degree be deem , under the circumstance , a rather hard one , an honest clergyman of the town respectfully address a note to his grace , beg he to take the case of those unfortunate mariner into full consideration . to which my lord duke in substance reply ( both letter be publish ) that he have already do so , and receive the money , and would be oblige to the reverend gentleman if for the future he ( the reverend gentleman ) would decline meddle with other people 's business . be this the still militant old man , stand at the corner of the three kingdom , on all hand coerce alm of beggar ?
it will readily be see that in this case the allege right of the duke to the whale be a delegate one from the sovereign . we must need inquire then on what principle the sovereign be originally invest with that right . the law itself have already be set forth . but plowdon give we the reason for it . say plowdon , the whale so catch belong to the king and queen , " because of its superior excellence . " and by the sound commentator this have ever be hold a cogent argument in such matter .
but why should the king have the head , and the queen the tail ? a reason for that , ye lawyer !
in his treatise on " queen - gold , " or queen - pinmoney , an old king 's bench author , one william prynne , thus discourseth : " ye tail be ye queen 's , that ye queen 's wardrobe may be supply with ye whalebone . " now this be write at a time when the black limber bone of the greenland or right whale be largely use in lady ' bodice . but this same bone be not in the tail ; it be in the head , which be a sad mistake for a sagacious lawyer like prynne . but be the queen a mermaid , to be present with a tail ? an allegorical meaning may lurk here .
there be two royal fish so style by the english law writer -- the whale and the sturgeon ; both royal property under certain limitation , and nominally supply the tenth branch of the crown 's ordinary revenue . i know not that any other author have hint of the matter ; but by inference it seem to i that the sturgeon must be divide in the same way as the whale , the king receive the highly dense and elastic head peculiar to that fish , which , symbolically regard , may possibly be humorously ground upon some presume congeniality . and thus there seem a reason in all thing , even in law .
chapter 91
the pequod meet the rose - bud .
" in vain it be to rake for ambergriese in the paunch of this leviathan , insufferable fetor deny not inquiry . " sir t. browne , v.e.
it be a week or two after the last whaling scene recount , and when we be slowly sail over a sleepy , vapoury , mid - day sea , that the many nose on the pequod 's deck prove more vigilant discoverer than the three pair of eye aloft . a peculiar and not very pleasant smell be smell in the sea .
" i will bet something now , " say stubb , " that somewhere hereabout be some of those drug whale we tickle the other day . i think they would keel up before long . "
presently , the vapour in advance slide aside ; and there in the distance lie a ship , whose furled sail betoken that some sort of whale must be alongside . as we glide nearer , the stranger show french colour from his peak ; and by the eddying cloud of vulture sea - fowl that circle , and hover , and swoop around he , it be plain that the whale alongside must be what the fisherman call a blasted whale , that is , a whale that have die unmolested on the sea , and so float an unappropriated corpse . it may well be conceive , what an unsavory odor such a mass must exhale ; bad than an assyrian city in the plague , when the living be incompetent to bury the depart . so intolerable indeed be it regard by some , that no cupidity could persuade they to moor alongside of it . yet be there those who will still do it ; notwithstanding the fact that the oil obtain from such subject be of a very inferior quality , and by no mean of the nature of attar - of - rose .
come still near with the expire breeze , we see that the frenchman have a second whale alongside ; and this second whale seem even more of a nosegay than the first . in truth , it turn out to be one of those problematical whale that seem to dry up and die with a sort of prodigious dyspepsia , or indigestion ; leave their defunct body almost entirely bankrupt of anything like oil . nevertheless , in the proper place we shall see that no knowing fisherman will ever turn up his nose at such a whale as this , however much he may shun blast whale in general .
the pequod have now sweep so nigh to the stranger , that stubb vow he recognise his cut spade - pole entangle in the line that be knot round the tail of one of these whale .
" there be a pretty fellow , now , " he banteringly laugh , stand in the ship 's bow , " there be a jackal for ye ! i well know that these crappoe of frenchmen be but poor devil in the fishery ; sometimes lower their boat for breaker , mistake they for sperm whale spout ; yes , and sometimes sail from their port with their hold full of box of tallow candle , and case of snuffer , foresee that all the oil they will get will not be enough to dip the captain 's wick into ; aye , we all know these thing ; but look ye , here be a crappo that be content with our leaving , the drug whale there , i mean ; aye , and be content too with scrap the dry bone of that other precious fish he have there . poor devil ! i say , pass round a hat , some one , and let us make he a present of a little oil for dear charity 's sake . for what oil he will get from that drug whale there , would not be fit to burn in a jail ; no , not in a condemn cell . and as for the other whale , why , i will agree to get more oil by chop up and try out these three mast of ours , than he will get from that bundle of bone ; though , now that i think of it , it may contain something worth a good deal more than oil ; yes , ambergris . i wonder now if our old man have think of that . it be worth try . yes , i be for it ; " and so say he start for the quarter - deck .
by this time the faint air have become a complete calm ; so that whether or no , the pequod be now fairly entrapped in the smell , with no hope of escape except by its breezing up again . issue from the cabin , stubb now call his boat 's crew , and pull off for the stranger . draw across her bow , he perceive that in accordance with the fanciful french taste , the upper part of her stem - piece be carve in the likeness of a huge drooping stalk , be paint green , and for thorn have copper spike project from it here and there ; the whole terminating in a symmetrical fold bulb of a bright red colour . upon her head board , in large gilt letter , he read " bouton de rose,"--rose - button , or rose - bud ; and this be the romantic name of this aromatic ship .
though stubb do not understand the bouton part of the inscription , yet the word rose , and the bulbous figure - head put together , sufficiently explain the whole to he .
" a wooden rose - bud , eh ? " he cry with his hand to his nose , " that will do very well ; but how like all creation it smell ! "
now in order to hold direct communication with the people on deck , he have to pull round the bow to the starboard side , and thus come close to the blasted whale ; and so talk over it .
arrive then at this spot , with one hand still to his nose , he bawled--"bouton - de - rose , ahoy ! be there any of you bouton - de - rose that speak english ? "
" yes , " rejoin a guernsey - man from the bulwark , who turn out to be the chief - mate .
" well , then , my bouton - de - rose - bud , have you see the white whale ? "
" what whale ? "
" the white whale -- a sperm whale -- moby dick , have ye see he ?
" never hear of such a whale . cachalot blanche ! white whale -- no . "
" very good , then ; good bye now , and i will call again in a minute . "
then rapidly pull back towards the pequod , and see ahab lean over the quarter - deck rail await his report , he mould his two hand into a trumpet and shouted--"no , sir ! no ! " upon which ahab retire , and stubb return to the frenchman .
he now perceive that the guernsey - man , who have just get into the chain , and be use a cutting - spade , have sling his nose in a sort of bag .
" what be the matter with your nose , there ? " say stubb . " broke it ? "
" i wish it be break , or that i do not have any nose at all ! " answer the guernsey - man , who do not seem to relish the job he be at very much . " but what be you hold yours for ? "
" oh , nothing ! it be a wax nose ; i have to hold it on . fine day , be not it ? air rather gardenny , i should say ; throw we a bunch of posy , will ye , bouton - de - rose ? "
" what in the devil 's name do you want here ? " roar the guernseyman , fly into a sudden passion .
" oh ! keep cool -- cool ? yes , that be the word ! why do not you pack those whale in ice while you be work at them ? but joke aside , though ; do you know , rose - bud , that it be all nonsense try to get any oil out of such whale ? as for that dry up one , there , he have not a gill in his whole carcase . "
" i know that well enough ; but , d'ye see , the captain here will not believe it ; this be his first voyage ; he be a cologne manufacturer before . but come aboard , and mayhap he will believe you , if he will not i ; and so i will get out of this dirty scrape . "
" anything to oblige ye , my sweet and pleasant fellow , " rejoin stubb , and with that he soon mount to the deck . there a queer scene present itself . the sailor , in tassel cap of red worst , be get the heavy tackle in readiness for the whale . but they work rather slow and talk very fast , and seem in anything but a good humor . all their nose upwardly project from their face like so many jib - boom . now and then pair of they would drop their work , and run up to the mast - head to get some fresh air . some think they would catch the plague , dip oakum in coal - tar , and at interval hold it to their nostril . other having break the stem of their pipe almost short off at the bowl , be vigorously puff tobacco - smoke , so that it constantly fill their olfactorie .
stubb be strike by a shower of outcry and anathema proceed from the captain 's round - house abaft ; and look in that direction see a fiery face thrust from behind the door , which be hold ajar from within . this be the tormented surgeon , who , after in vain remonstrate against the proceeding of the day , have betake himself to the captain 's round - house ( cabinet he call it ) to avoid the pest ; but still , could not help yell out his entreaty and indignation at time .
mark all this , stubb argue well for his scheme , and turn to the guernsey - man have a little chat with he , during which the strange mate express his detestation of his captain as a conceited ignoramus , who have bring they all into so unsavory and unprofitable a pickle . sound he carefully , stubb far perceive that the guernsey - man have not the slight suspicion concern the ambergris . he therefore hold his peace on that head , but otherwise be quite frank and confidential with he , so that the two quickly concoct a little plan for both circumvent and satirize the captain , without his at all dream of distrust their sincerity . accord to this little plan of theirs , the guernsey - man , under cover of an interpreter 's office , be to tell the captain what he please , but as come from stubb ; and as for stubb , he be to utter any nonsense that should come uppermost in he during the interview .
by this time their destine victim appear from his cabin . he be a small and dark , but rather delicate look man for a sea - captain , with large whisker and moustache , however ; and wear a red cotton velvet vest with watch - seal at his side . to this gentleman , stubb be now politely introduce by the guernsey - man , who at once ostentatiously put on the aspect of interpreting between they .
" what shall i say to he first ? " say he .
" why , " say stubb , eye the velvet vest and the watch and seal , " you may as well begin by tell he that he look a sort of babyish to i , though i do not pretend to be a judge . "
" he say , monsieur , " say the guernsey - man , in french , turn to his captain , " that only yesterday his ship speak a vessel , whose captain and chief - mate , with six sailor , have all die of a fever catch from a blasted whale they have bring alongside . "
upon this the captain start , and eagerly desire to know more .
" what now ? " say the guernsey - man to stubb .
" why , since he take it so easy , tell he that now i have eye he carefully , i be quite certain that he be no more fit to command a whale - ship than a st. jago monkey . in fact , tell he from i he be a baboon . "
" he vow and declare , monsieur , that the other whale , the dry one , be far more deadly than the blasted one ; in fine , monsieur , he conjure we , as we value our life , to cut loose from these fish . "
instantly the captain run forward , and in a loud voice command his crew to desist from hoist the cutting - tackle , and at once cast loose the cable and chain confine the whale to the ship .
" what now ? " say the guernsey - man , when the captain have return to they .
" why , let i see ; yes , you may as well tell he now that -- that -- in fact , tell he i have diddle he , and ( aside to himself ) perhaps somebody else . "
" he say , monsieur , that he be very happy to have be of any service to we . "
hear this , the captain vow that they be the grateful party ( mean himself and mate ) and conclude by invite stubb down into his cabin to drink a bottle of bordeaux .
" he want you to take a glass of wine with he , " say the interpreter .
" thank he heartily ; but tell he it be against my principle to drink with the man i have diddle . in fact , tell he i must go . "
" he say , monsieur , that his principle will not admit of his drinking ; but that if monsieur want to live another day to drink , then monsieur have good drop all four boat , and pull the ship away from these whale , for it be so calm they will not drift . "
by this time stubb be over the side , and get into his boat , hail the guernsey - man to this effect,--that have a long tow - line in his boat , he would do what he could to help they , by pull out the light whale of the two from the ship 's side . while the frenchman 's boat , then , be engage in tow the ship one way , stubb benevolently tow away at his whale the other way , ostentatiously slack out a most unusually long tow - line .
presently a breeze spring up ; stubb feign to cast off from the whale ; hoist his boat , the frenchman soon increase his distance , while the pequod slide in between he and stubb 's whale . whereupon stubb quickly pull to the float body , and hail the pequod to give notice of his intention , at once proceed to reap the fruit of his unrighteous cunning . seize his sharp boat - spade , he commence an excavation in the body , a little behind the side fin . you would almost have think he be dig a cellar there in the sea ; and when at length his spade strike against the gaunt rib , it be like turn up old roman tile and pottery bury in fat english loam . his boat 's crew be all in high excitement , eagerly help their chief , and look as anxious as gold - hunter .
and all the time numberless fowl be diving , and ducking , and screaming , and yelling , and fight around they . stubb be begin to look disappointed , especially as the horrible nosegay increase , when suddenly from out the very heart of this plague , there steal a faint stream of perfume , which flow through the tide of bad smell without be absorb by it , as one river will flow into and then along with another , without at all blend with it for a time .
" i have it , i have it , " cry stubb , with delight , strike something in the subterranean region , " a purse ! a purse ! "
drop his spade , he thrust both hand in , and draw out handfuls of something that look like ripe windsor soap , or rich mottled old cheese ; very unctuous and savory withal . you might easily dent it with your thumb ; it be of a hue between yellow and ash colour . and this , good friend , be ambergris , worth a gold guinea an ounce to any druggist . some six handful be obtain ; but more be unavoidably lose in the sea , and still more , perhaps , might have be secure be it not for impatient ahab 's loud command to stubb to desist , and come on board , else the ship would bid they good bye .
chapter 92
ambergris .
now this ambergris be a very curious substance , and so important as an article of commerce , that in 1791 a certain nantucket - bear captain coffin be examine at the bar of the english house of commons on that subject . for at that time , and indeed until a comparatively late day , the precise origin of ambergris remain , like amber itself , a problem to the learned . though the word ambergris be but the french compound for grey amber , yet the two substance be quite distinct . for amber , though at time find on the sea - coast , be also dig up in some far inland soil , whereas ambergris be never find except upon the sea . besides , amber be a hard , transparent , brittle , odorless substance , use for mouth - piece to pipe , for bead and ornament ; but ambergris be soft , waxy , and so highly fragrant and spicy , that it be largely use in perfumery , in pastile , precious candle , hair - powder , and pomatum . the turks use it in cooking , and also carry it to mecca , for the same purpose that frankincense be carry to st. peter 's in rome . some wine merchant drop a few grain into claret , to flavor it .
who would think , then , that such fine lady and gentleman should regale themselves with an essence find in the inglorious bowel of a sick whale ! yet so it be . by some , ambergris be suppose to be the cause , and by other the effect , of the dyspepsia in the whale . how to cure such a dyspepsia it be hard to say , unless by administer three or four boat load of brandreth 's pill , and then run out of harm 's way , as laborer do in blast rock .
i have forget to say that there be find in this ambergris , certain hard , round , bony plate , which at first stubb thought might be sailor ' trowser button ; but it afterwards turn out that they be nothing more than piece of small squid bone embalm in that manner .
now that the incorruption of this most fragrant ambergris should be find in the heart of such decay ; be this nothing ? bethink thee of that saying of st. paul in corinthians , about corruption and incorruption ; how that we be sow in dishonour , but raise in glory . and likewise call to mind that saying of paracelsus about what it be that maketh the good musk . also forget not the strange fact that of all thing of ill - savor , cologne - water , in its rudimental manufacturing stage , be the bad .
i should like to conclude the chapter with the above appeal , but can not , owe to my anxiety to repel a charge often make against whaleman , and which , in the estimation of some already bias mind , might be consider as indirectly substantiate by what have be say of the frenchman 's two whale . elsewhere in this volume the slanderous aspersion have be disprove , that the vocation of whale be throughout a slatternly , untidy business . but there be another thing to rebut . they hint that all whale always smell bad . now how do this odious stigma originate ?
i opine , that it be plainly traceable to the first arrival of the greenland whale ship in london , more than two century ago . because those whaleman do not then , and do not now , try out their oil at sea as the southern ship have always do ; but cut up the fresh blubber in small bit , thrust it through the bung hole of large cask , and carry it home in that manner ; the shortness of the season in those icy seas , and the sudden and violent storm to which they be expose , forbid any other course . the consequence be , that upon break into the hold , and unload one of these whale cemetery , in the greenland dock , a savor be give forth somewhat similar to that arise from excavate an old city grave - yard , for the foundation of a lie - in - hospital .
i partly surmise also , that this wicked charge against whaler may be likewise impute to the existence on the coast of greenland , in former time , of a dutch village call schmerenburgh or smeerenberg , which latter name be the one use by the learn fogo von slack , in his great work on smells , a text - book on that subject . as its name import ( smeer , fat ; berg , to put up ) , this village be found in order to afford a place for the blubber of the dutch whale fleet to be try out , without be take home to holland for that purpose . it be a collection of furnace , fat - kettle , and oil shed ; and when the work be in full operation certainly give forth no very pleasant savor . but all this be quite different with a south sea sperm whaler ; which in a voyage of four year perhaps , after completely fill her hold with oil , do not , perhaps , consume fifty day in the business of boil out ; and in the state that it be caske , the oil be nearly scentless . the truth be , that live or dead , if but decently treat , whale as a specie be by no means creature of ill odor ; nor can whaleman be recognise , as the people of the middle age affect to detect a jew in the company , by the nose . nor indeed can the whale possibly be otherwise than fragrant , when , as a general thing , he enjoy such high health ; take abundance of exercise ; always out of door ; though , it be true , seldom in the open air . i say , that the motion of a sperm whale 's fluke above water dispense a perfume , as when a musk - scented lady rustle her dress in a warm parlor . what then shall i liken the sperm whale to for fragrance , consider his magnitude ? must it not be to that famous elephant , with jewelled tusk , and redolent with myrrh , which be lead out of an indian town to do honour to alexander the great ?
chapter 93
the castaway .
it be but some few day after encounter the frenchman , that a most significant event befell the most insignificant of the pequod 's crew ; an event most lamentable ; and which end in provide the sometimes madly merry and predestinate craft with a living and ever accompany prophecy of whatever shattered sequel might prove her own .
now , in the whale ship , it be not every one that go in the boat . some few hand be reserve call ship - keeper , whose province it be to work the vessel while the boat be pursue the whale . as a general thing , these ship - keeper be as hardy fellow as the man comprise the boat ' crew . but if there happen to be an unduly slender , clumsy , or timorous wight in the ship , that wight be certain to be make a ship - keeper . it be so in the pequod with the little negro pippin by nick - name , pip by abbreviation . poor pip ! ye have hear of he before ; ye must remember his tambourine on that dramatic midnight , so gloomy - jolly .
in outer aspect , pip and dough - boy make a match , like a black pony and a white one , of equal development , though of dissimilar colour , drive in one eccentric span . but while hapless dough - boy be by nature dull and torpid in his intellect , pip , though over tender - hearted , be at bottom very bright , with that pleasant , genial , jolly brightness peculiar to his tribe ; a tribe , which ever enjoy all holiday and festivity with finer , free relish than any other race . for black , the year 's calendar should show naught but three hundred and sixty - five fourth of julys and new year 's day . nor smile so , while i write that this little black be brilliant , for even blackness have its brilliancy ; behold yon lustrous ebony , panel in king 's cabinet . but pip love life , and all life 's peaceable security ; so that the panic - strike business in which he have somehow unaccountably become entrap , have most sadly blur his brightness ; though , as ere long will be see , what be thus temporarily subdue in he , in the end be destine to be luridly illumine by strange wild fire , that fictitiously show he off to ten time the natural lustre with which in his native tolland county in connecticut , he have once enliven many a fiddler 's frolic on the green ; and at melodious even - tide , with his gay ha - ha ! have turn the round horizon into one star - bell tambourine . so , though in the clear air of day , suspend against a blue - veined neck , the pure - water diamond drop will healthful glow ; yet , when the cunning jeweller would show you the diamond in its most impressive lustre , he lay it against a gloomy ground , and then light it up , not by the sun , but by some unnatural gas . then come out those fiery effulgence , infernally superb ; then the evil - blaze diamond , once the divinest symbol of the crystal sky , look like some crown - jewel steal from the king of hell . but let we to the story .
it come to pass , that in the ambergris affair stubb 's after - oarsman chance so to sprain his hand , as for a time to become quite maim ; and , temporarily , pip be put into his place .
the first time stubb lower with he , pip evince much nervousness ; but happily , for that time , escape close contact with the whale ; and therefore come off not altogether discreditably ; though stubb observe he , take care , afterwards , to exhort he to cherish his courageousness to the utmost , for he might often find it needful .
now upon the second lowering , the boat paddle upon the whale ; and as the fish receive the dart iron , it give its customary rap , which happen , in this instance , to be right under poor pip 's seat . the involuntary consternation of the moment cause he to leap , paddle in hand , out of the boat ; and in such a way , that part of the slack whale line come against his chest , he breast it overboard with he , so as to become entangled in it , when at last plumping into the water . that instant the stricken whale start on a fierce run , the line swiftly straighten ; and presto ! poor pip come all foam up to the chock of the boat , remorselessly drag there by the line , which have take several turn around his chest and neck .
tashtego stand in the bow . he be full of the fire of the hunt . he hat pip for a poltroon . snatch the boat - knife from its sheath , he suspend its sharp edge over the line , and turn towards stubb , exclaim interrogatively , " cut ? " meantime pip 's blue , choked face plainly look , do , for god 's sake ! all pass in a flash . in less than half a minute , this entire thing happen .
" damn he , cut ! " roar stubb ; and so the whale be lose and pip be save .
so soon as he recover himself , the poor little negro be assail by yell and execration from the crew . tranquilly permit these irregular cursing to evaporate , stubb then in a plain , business - like , but still half humorous manner , curse pip officially ; and that do , unofficially give he much wholesome advice . the substance be , never jump from a boat , pip , except -- but all the rest be indefinite , as the sound advice ever be . now , in general , stick to the boat , be your true motto in whaling ; but case will sometimes happen when leap from the boat , be still well . moreover , as if perceive at last that if he should give undiluted conscientious advice to pip , he would be leave he too wide a margin to jump in for the future ; stubb suddenly drop all advice , and conclude with a peremptory command , " stick to the boat , pip , or by the lord , i will not pick you up if you jump ; mind that . we can not afford to lose whale by the like of you ; a whale would sell for thirty time what you would , pip , in alabama . bear that in mind , and do not jump any more . " hereby perhaps stubb indirectly hint , that though man love his fellow , yet man be a money - make animal , which propensity too often interfere with his benevolence .
but we be all in the hand of the gods ; and pip jump again . it be under very similar circumstance to the first performance ; but this time he do not breast out the line ; and hence , when the whale start to run , pip be leave behind on the sea , like a hurried traveller 's trunk . alas ! stubb be but too true to his word . it be a beautiful , bounteous , blue day ; the spangled sea calm and cool , and flatly stretch away , all round , to the horizon , like gold - beater 's skin hammer out to the extreme . bob up and down in that sea , pip 's ebon head show like a head of clove . no boat - knife be lift when he fall so rapidly astern . stubb 's inexorable back be turn upon he ; and the whale be wing . in three minute , a whole mile of shoreless ocean be between pip and stubb . out from the centre of the sea , poor pip turn his crisp , curling , black head to the sun , another lonely castaway , though the lofty and the bright .
now , in calm weather , to swim in the open ocean be as easy to the practised swimmer as to ride in a spring - carriage ashore . but the awful lonesomeness be intolerable . the intense concentration of self in the middle of such a heartless immensity , my god ! who can tell it ? mark , how when sailor in a dead calm bathe in the open sea -- mark how closely they hug their ship and only coast along her side .
but have stubb really abandon the poor little negro to his fate ? no ; he do not mean to , at least . because there be two boat in his wake , and he suppose , no doubt , that they would of course come up to pip very quickly , and pick he up ; though , indeed , such consideration towards oarsman jeopardize through their own timidity , be not always manifest by the hunter in all similar instance ; and such instance not unfrequently occur ; almost invariably in the fishery , a coward , so call , be mark with the same ruthless detestation peculiar to military navy and army .
but it so happen , that those boat , without see pip , suddenly spy whale close to they on one side , turn , and give chase ; and stubb 's boat be now so far away , and he and all his crew so intent upon his fish , that pip 's ringed horizon begin to expand around he miserably . by the mere chance the ship itself at last rescue he ; but from that hour the little negro go about the deck an idiot ; such , at least , they say he be . the sea have jeeringly keep his finite body up , but drown the infinite of his soul . not drown entirely , though . rather carry down alive to wondrous depth , where strange shape of the unwarped primal world glide to and fro before his passive eye ; and the miser - merman , wisdom , reveal his hoarded heap ; and among the joyous , heartless , ever - juvenile eternity , pip see the multitudinous , god - omnipresent , coral insect , that out of the firmament of water heave the colossal orb . he see god 's foot upon the treadle of the loom , and speak it ; and therefore his shipmate call he mad . so man 's insanity be heaven 's sense ; and wander from all mortal reason , man come at last to that celestial thought , which , to reason , be absurd and frantic ; and weal or woe , feel then uncompromised , indifferent as his god .
for the rest , blame not stubb too hardly . the thing be common in that fishery ; and in the sequel of the narrative , it will then be see what like abandonment befell myself .
chapter 94
a squeeze of the hand .
that whale of stubb 's , so dearly purchase , be duly bring to the pequod 's side , where all those cut and hoist operation previously detail , be regularly go through , even to the baling of the heidelburgh tun , or case .
while some be occupy with this latter duty , other be employ in drag away the large tub , so soon as fill with the sperm ; and when the proper time arrive , this same sperm be carefully manipulate ere go to the try - work , of which anon .
it have cool and crystallize to such a degree , that when , with several other , i sit down before a large constantine 's bath of it , i find it strangely concrete into lump , here and there roll about in the liquid part . it be our business to squeeze these lump back into fluid . a sweet and unctuous duty ! no wonder that in old time this sperm be such a favourite cosmetic . such a clear ! such a sweetener ! such a softener ! such a delicious molifier ! after have my hand in it for only a few minute , my finger feel like eel , and begin , as it be , to serpentine and spiralise .
as i sit there at my ease , cross - legged on the deck ; after the bitter exertion at the windlass ; under a blue tranquil sky ; the ship under indolent sail , and glide so serenely along ; as i bath my hand among those soft , gentle globule of infiltrate tissue , weave almost within the hour ; as they richly break to my finger , and discharge all their opulence , like fully ripe grape their wine ; as i snuff up that uncontaminate aroma,--literally and truly , like the smell of spring violet ; i declare to you , that for the time i live as in a musky meadow ; i forget all about our horrible oath ; in that inexpressible sperm , i wash my hand and my heart of it ; i almost begin to credit the old paracelsan superstition that sperm be of rare virtue in allay the heat of anger ; while bath in that bath , i feel divinely free from all ill - will , or petulance , or malice , of any sort whatsoever .
squeeze ! squeeze ! squeeze ! all the morning long ; i squeeze that sperm till i myself almost melt into it ; i squeeze that sperm till a strange sort of insanity come over i ; and i find myself unwittingly squeeze my co - laborer ' hand in it , mistake their hand for the gentle globule . such an abounding , affectionate , friendly , love feeling do this avocation beget ; that at last i be continually squeeze their hand , and look up into their eye sentimentally ; as much as to say,--oh ! my dear fellow being , why should we long cherish any social acerbity , or know the slight ill - humor or envy ! come ; let we squeeze hand all round ; nay , let we all squeeze ourselves into each other ; let we squeeze ourselves universally into the very milk and sperm of kindness .
would that i could keep squeeze that sperm for ever ! for now , since by many prolong , repeat experience , i have perceive that in all case man must eventually lower , or at least shift , his conceit of attainable felicity ; not place it anywhere in the intellect or the fancy ; but in the wife , the heart , the bed , the table , the saddle , the fireside , the country ; now that i have perceive all this , i be ready to squeeze case eternally . in thought of the vision of the night , i see long row of angel in paradise , each with his hand in a jar of spermaceti .
now , while discourse of sperm , it behoove to speak of other thing akin to it , in the business of prepare the sperm whale for the try - work .
first come white - horse , so call , which be obtain from the taper part of the fish , and also from the thick portion of his fluke . it be tough with congeal tendon -- a wad of muscle -- but still contain some oil . after be sever from the whale , the white - horse be first cut into portable oblong ere go to the mincer . they look much like block of berkshire marble .
plum - pudding be the term bestow upon certain fragmentary part of the whale 's flesh , here and there adhere to the blanket of blubber , and often participate to a considerable degree in its unctuousness . it be a most refreshing , convivial , beautiful object to behold . as its name import , it be of an exceedingly rich , mottled tint , with a bestreaked snowy and golden ground , dot with spot of the deep crimson and purple . it be plum of ruby , in picture of citron . spite of reason , it be hard to keep yourself from eat it . i confess , that once i steal behind the foremast to try it . it taste something as i should conceive a royal cutlet from the thigh of louis le gros might have taste , suppose he to have be kill the first day after the venison season , and that particular venison season contemporary with an unusually fine vintage of the vineyard of champagne .
there be another substance , and a very singular one , which turn up in the course of this business , but which i feel it to be very puzzling adequately to describe . it be call slobgollion ; an appellation original with the whaleman , and even so be the nature of the substance . it be an ineffably oozy , stringy affair , most frequently find in the tub of sperm , after a prolong squeezing , and subsequent decanting . i hold it to be the wondrously thin , ruptured membrane of the case , coalescing .
gurry , so call , be a term properly belong to right whaleman , but sometimes incidentally use by the sperm fisherman . it designate the dark , glutinous substance which be scrap off the back of the greenland or right whale , and much of which cover the deck of those inferior soul who hunt that ignoble leviathan .
nipper . strictly this word be not indigenous to the whale 's vocabulary . but as apply by whaleman , it become so . a whaleman 's nipper be a short firm strip of tendinous stuff cut from the taper part of leviathan 's tail : it average an inch in thickness , and for the rest , be about the size of the iron part of a hoe . edgewise move along the oily deck , it operate like a leathern squilgee ; and by nameless blandishment , as of magic , allure along with it all impurity .
but to learn all about these recondite matter , your good way be at once to descend into the blubber - room , and have a long talk with its inmate . this place have previously be mention as the receptacle for the blanket - piece , when stript and hoist from the whale . when the proper time arrive for cut up its content , this apartment be a scene of terror to all tiro , especially by night . on one side , light by a dull lantern , a space have be leave clear for the workman . they generally go in pairs,--a pike - and - gaffman and a spade - man . the whaling - pike be similar to a frigate 's boarding - weapon of the same name . the gaff be something like a boat - hook . with his gaff , the gaffman hook on to a sheet of blubber , and strive to hold it from slip , as the ship pitch and lurch about . meanwhile , the spade - man stand on the sheet itself , perpendicularly chop it into the portable horse - piece . this spade be sharp as hone can make it ; the spademan 's foot be shoeless ; the thing he stand on will sometimes irresistibly slide away from he , like a sledge . if he cut off one of his own toe , or one of his assistant ' , would you be very much astonish ? toe be scarce among veteran blubber - room man .
chapter 95
the cassock .
have you step on board the pequod at a certain juncture of this post - mortemizing of the whale ; and have you stroll forward nigh the windlass , pretty sure be i that you would have scan with no small curiosity a very strange , enigmatical object , which you would have see there , lie along lengthwise in the lee scupper . not the wondrous cistern in the whale 's huge head ; not the prodigy of his unhinged lower jaw ; not the miracle of his symmetrical tail ; none of these would so surprise you , as half a glimpse of that unaccountable cone,--longer than a kentuckian be tall , nigh a foot in diameter at the base , and jet - black as yojo , the ebony idol of queequeg . and an idol , indeed , it be ; or , rather , in old time , its likeness be . such an idol as that find in the secret grove of queen maachah in judea ; and for worship which , king asa , her son , do depose she , and destroy the idol , and burn it for an abomination at the brook kedron , as darkly set forth in the 15th chapter of the first book of king .
look at the sailor , call the mincer , who now come along , and assist by two ally , heavily back the grandissimus , as the mariner call it , and with bowed shoulder , stagger off with it as if he be a grenadi carry a dead comrade from the field . extend it upon the forecastle deck , he now proceed cylindrically to remove its dark pelt , as an african hunter the pelt of a boa . this do he turn the pelt inside out , like a pantaloon leg ; give it a good stretching , so as almost to double its diameter ; and at last hang it , well spread , in the rigging , to dry . ere long , it be take down ; when remove some three foot of it , towards the pointed extremity , and then cut two slit for arm - hole at the other end , he lengthwise slip himself bodily into it . the mincer now stand before you invest in the full canonical of his calling . immemorial to all his order , this investiture alone will adequately protect he , while employ in the peculiar function of his office .
that office consist in mince the horse - piece of blubber for the pot ; an operation which be conduct at a curious wooden horse , plant endwise against the bulwark , and with a capacious tub beneath it , into which the mince piece drop , fast as the sheet from a rapt orator 's desk . array in decent black ; occupy a conspicuous pulpit ; intent on bible leaf ; what a candidate for an archbishopric , what a lad for a pope be this mincer ! *
* bible leave ! bible leave ! this be the invariable cry from the mate to the mincer . it enjoin he to be careful , and cut his work into as thin slice as possible , inasmuch as by so do the business of boil out the oil be much accelerate , and its quantity considerably increase , besides perhaps improve it in quality .
chapter 96
the try - works .
besides her hoist boat , an american whaler be outwardly distinguish by her try - work . she present the curious anomaly of the most solid masonry join with oak and hemp in constitute the complete ship . it be as if from the open field a brick - kiln be transport to her plank .
the try - work be plant between the foremast and mainmast , the most roomy part of the deck . the timber beneath be of a peculiar strength , fit to sustain the weight of an almost solid mass of brick and mortar , some ten foot by eight square , and five in height . the foundation do not penetrate the deck , but the masonry be firmly secure to the surface by ponderous knee of iron brace it on all side , and screw it down to the timber . on the flank it be case with wood , and at top completely cover by a large , sloping , batten hatchway . remove this hatch we expose the great try - pot , two in number , and each of several barrel ' capacity . when not in use , they be keep remarkably clean . sometimes they be polish with soapstone and sand , till they shine within like silver punch - bowl . during the night - watch some cynical old sailor will crawl into they and coil themselves away there for a nap . while employ in polish they -- one man in each pot , side by side -- many confidential communication be carry on , over the iron lip . it be a place also for profound mathematical meditation . it be in the left hand try - pot of the pequod , with the soapstone diligently circle round i , that i be first indirectly strike by the remarkable fact , that in geometry all body glide along the cycloid , my soapstone for example , will descend from any point in precisely the same time .
remove the fire - board from the front of the try - work , the bare masonry of that side be expose , penetrate by the two iron mouth of the furnace , directly underneath the pot . these mouth be fit with heavy door of iron . the intense heat of the fire be prevent from communicate itself to the deck , by mean of a shallow reservoir extend under the entire inclose surface of the work . by a tunnel insert at the rear , this reservoir be keep replenish with water as fast as it evaporate . there be no external chimney ; they open direct from the rear wall . and here let we go back for a moment .
it be about nine o'clock at night that the pequod 's try - work be first start on this present voyage . it belong to stubb to oversee the business .
" all ready there ? off hatch , then , and start she . you cook , fire the work . " this be an easy thing , for the carpenter have be thrust his shaving into the furnace throughout the passage . here be it say that in a whale voyage the first fire in the try - work have to be feed for a time with wood . after that no wood be use , except as a means of quick ignition to the staple fuel . in a word , after be try out , the crisp , shrivelled blubber , now call scrap or fritter , still contain considerable of its unctuous property . these fritter feed the flame . like a plethoric burn martyr , or a self - consume misanthrope , once ignite , the whale supply his own fuel and burn by his own body . would that he consume his own smoke ! for his smoke be horrible to inhale , and inhale it you must , and not only that , but you must live in it for the time . it have an unspeakable , wild , hindoo odor about it , such as may lurk in the vicinity of funereal pyre . it smell like the left wing of the day of judgment ; it be an argument for the pit .
by midnight the work be in full operation . we be clear from the carcase ; sail have be make ; the wind be freshen ; the wild ocean darkness be intense . but that darkness be lick up by the fierce flame , which at interval fork forth from the sooty flue , and illuminate every lofty rope in the rigging , as with the famed greek fire . the burn ship drive on , as if remorselessly commission to some vengeful deed . so the pitch and sulphur - freight brig of the bold hydriote , canaris , issue from their midnight harbor , with broad sheet of flame for sail , bear down upon the turkish frigate , and fold they in conflagration .
the hatch , remove from the top of the work , now afford a wide hearth in front of they . stand on this be the tartarean shape of the pagan harpooneer , always the whale - ship 's stoker . with huge pronged pole they pitch hiss mass of blubber into the scald pot , or stir up the fire beneath , till the snaky flame dart , curl , out of the door to catch they by the foot . the smoke roll away in sullen heap . to every pitch of the ship there be a pitch of the boiling oil , which seem all eagerness to leap into their face . opposite the mouth of the work , on the further side of the wide wooden hearth , be the windlass . this serve for a sea - sofa . here lounge the watch , when not otherwise employ , look into the red heat of the fire , till their eye felt scorch in their head . their tawny feature , now all begrime with smoke and sweat , their matted beard , and the contrast barbaric brilliancy of their tooth , all these be strangely reveal in the capricious emblazoning of the work . as they narrate to each other their unholy adventure , their tale of terror tell in word of mirth ; as their uncivilized laughter fork upwards out of they , like the flame from the furnace ; as to and fro , in their front , the harpooneer wildly gesticulate with their huge pronged fork and dipper ; as the wind howl on , and the sea leap , and the ship groan and dive , and yet steadfastly shoot her red hell far and far into the blackness of the sea and the night , and scornfully champ the white bone in her mouth , and viciously spat round she on all side ; then the rush pequod , freight with savage , and laden with fire , and burn a corpse , and plunge into that blackness of darkness , seem the material counterpart of her monomaniac commander 's soul .
so seem it to i , as i stand at her helm , and for long hour silently guide the way of this fire - ship on the sea . wrap , for that interval , in darkness myself , i but the well see the redness , the madness , the ghastliness of other . the continual sight of the fiend shape before i , caper half in smoke and half in fire , these at last begat kindre vision in my soul , so soon as i begin to yield to that unaccountable drowsiness which ever would come over i at a midnight helm .
but that night , in particular , a strange ( and ever since inexplicable ) thing occur to i . start from a brief standing sleep , i be horribly conscious of something fatally wrong . the jaw - bone tiller smite my side , which lean against it ; in my ear be the low hum of sail , just begin to shake in the wind ; i think my eye be open ; i be half conscious of put my finger to the lid and mechanically stretch they still far apart . but , spite of all this , i could see no compass before i to steer by ; though it seem but a minute since i have be watch the card , by the steady binnacle lamp illuminate it . nothing seem before i but a jet gloom , now and then make ghastly by flash of redness . uppermost be the impression , that whatever swift , rush thing i stand on be not so much bound to any haven ahead as rush from all havens astern . a stark , bewildered feeling , as of death , come over i . convulsively my hand grasp the tiller , but with the crazy conceit that the tiller be , somehow , in some enchant way , invert . my god ! what be the matter with i ? think i. lo ! in my brief sleep i have turn myself about , and be front the ship 's stern , with my back to her prow and the compass . in an instant i face back , just in time to prevent the vessel from fly up into the wind , and very probably capsize she . how glad and how grateful the relief from this unnatural hallucination of the night , and the fatal contingency of be bring by the lee !
look not too long in the face of the fire , o man ! never dream with thy hand on the helm ! turn not thy back to the compass ; accept the first hint of the hitching tiller ; believe not the artificial fire , when its redness make all thing look ghastly . to - morrow , in the natural sun , the sky will be bright ; those who glare like devil in the forking flame , the morn will show in far other , at least gentle , relief ; the glorious , golden , glad sun , the only true lamp -- all other but liar !
nevertheless the sun hide not virginia 's dismal swamp , nor rome 's accurse campagna , nor wide sahara , nor all the million of mile of desert and of grief beneath the moon . the sun hide not the ocean , which be the dark side of this earth , and which be two third of this earth . so , therefore , that mortal man who hath more of joy than sorrow in he , that mortal man can not be true -- not true , or undeveloped . with book the same . the truest of all man be the man of sorrows , and the truest of all book be solomon 's , and ecclesiastes be the fine hammer steel of woe . " all be vanity . " all . this wilful world hath not get hold of unchristian solomon 's wisdom yet . but he who dodge hospital and jail , and walk fast crossing graveyard , and would rather talk of opera than hell ; call cowper , young , pascal , rousseau , poor devil all of sick man ; and throughout a care - free lifetime swear by rabelais as pass wise , and therefore jolly;--not that man be fit to sit down on tomb - stone , and break the green damp mould with unfathomably wondrous solomon .
but even solomon , he say , " the man that wandereth out of the way of understanding shall remain " ( i.e. , even while live ) " in the congregation of the dead . " give not thyself up , then , to fire , lest it invert thee , deaden thee ; as for the time it do i . there be a wisdom that be woe ; but there be a woe that be madness . and there be a catskill eagle in some soul that can alike dive down into the black gorge , and soar out of they again and become invisible in the sunny space . and even if he for ever fly within the gorge , that gorge be in the mountain ; so that even in his low swoop the mountain eagle be still high than other bird upon the plain , even though they soar .
chapter 97
the lamp .
have you descend from the pequod 's try - work to the pequod 's forecastle , where the off duty watch be sleep , for one single moment you would have almost think you be stand in some illuminated shrine of canonized king and counsellor . there they lie in their triangular oaken vault , each mariner a chisel muteness ; a score of lamp flash upon his hooded eye .
in merchantman , oil for the sailor be more scarce than the milk of queen . to dress in the dark , and eat in the dark , and stumble in darkness to his pallet , this be his usual lot . but the whaleman , as he seek the food of light , so he live in light . he make his berth an aladdin 's lamp , and lay he down in it ; so that in the pitchy night the ship 's black hull still house an illumination .
see with what entire freedom the whaleman take his handful of lamp -- often but old bottle and vial , though -- to the copper cooler at the try - work , and replenish they there , as mug of ale at a vat . he burn , too , the purest of oil , in its unmanufactured , and , therefore , unvitiated state ; a fluid unknown to solar , lunar , or astral contrivance ashore . it be sweet as early grass butter in april . he go and hunt for his oil , so as to be sure of its freshness and genuineness , even as the traveller on the prairie hunt up his own supper of game .
chapter 98
stow down and clearing up .
already have it be relate how the great leviathan be afar off descry from the mast - head ; how he be chase over the watery moor , and slaughter in the valley of the deep ; how he be then tow alongside and behead ; and how ( on the principle which entitle the headsman of old to the garment in which the behead be kill ) his great padded surtout become the property of his executioner ; how , in due time , he be condemn to the pot , and , like shadrach , meshach , and abednego , his spermaceti , oil , and bone pass unscathed through the fire;--but now it remain to conclude the last chapter of this part of the description by rehearse -- sing , if i may -- the romantic proceeding of decant off his oil into the cask and strike they down into the hold , where once again leviathan return to his native profundity , slide along beneath the surface as before ; but , alas ! never more to rise and blow .
while still warm , the oil , like hot punch , be receive into the six - barrel cask ; and while , perhaps , the ship be pitch and roll this way and that in the midnight sea , the enormous cask be slew round and head over , end for end , and sometimes perilously scoot across the slippery deck , like so many land slide , till at last man - handle and stay in their course ; and all round the hoop , rap , rap , go as many hammer as can play upon they , for now , ex officio , every sailor be a cooper .
at length , when the last pint be caske , and all be cool , then the great hatchway be unseal , the bowel of the ship be throw open , and down go the cask to their final rest in the sea . this do , the hatch be replace , and hermetically close , like a closet wall up .
in the sperm fishery , this be perhaps one of the most remarkable incident in all the business of whaling . one day the plank stream with freshet of blood and oil ; on the sacred quarter - deck enormous mass of the whale 's head be profanely pile ; great rusty cask lie about , as in a brewery yard ; the smoke from the try - work have besoote all the bulwark ; the mariner go about suffuse with unctuousness ; the entire ship seem great leviathan himself ; while on all hand the din be deafen .
but a day or two after , you look about you , and prick your ear in this self - same ship ; and be it not for the tell - tale boat and try - work , you would all but swear you trod some silent merchant vessel , with a most scrupulously neat commander . the unmanufactured sperm oil possess a singularly cleansing virtue . this be the reason why the deck never look so white as just after what they call an affair of oil . besides , from the ash of the burn scrap of the whale , a potent lye be readily make ; and whenever any adhesiveness from the back of the whale remains cling to the side , that lye quickly exterminate it . hand go diligently along the bulwark , and with bucket of water and rag restore they to their full tidiness . the soot be brush from the low rigging . all the numerous implement which have be in use be likewise faithfully cleanse and put away . the great hatch be scrub and place upon the try - work , completely hide the pot ; every cask be out of sight ; all tackle be coil in unseen nook ; and when by the combined and simultaneous industry of almost the entire ship 's company , the whole of this conscientious duty be at last conclude , then the crew themselves proceed to their own ablution ; shift themselves from top to toe ; and finally issue to the immaculate deck , fresh and all aglow , as bridegroom new - leaped from out the dainty holland .
now , with elated step , they pace the plank in two and three , and humorously discourse of parlor , sofa , carpet , and fine cambric ; propose to mat the deck ; think of having hang to the top ; object not to take tea by moonlight on the piazza of the forecastle . to hint to such musked mariner of oil , and bone , and blubber , be little short of audacity . they know not the thing you distantly allude to . away , and bring we napkin !
but mark : aloft there , at the three mast head , stand three man intent on spy out more whale , which , if catch , infallibly will again soil the old oaken furniture , and drop at least one small grease - spot somewhere . yes ; and many be the time , when , after the severe uninterrupted labor , which know no night ; continue straight through for ninety - six hour ; when from the boat , where they have swell their wrist with all day row on the line,--they only step to the deck to carry vast chain , and heave the heavy windlass , and cut and slash , yea , and in their very sweating to be smoke and burn anew by the combine fire of the equatorial sun and the equatorial try - work ; when , on the heel of all this , they have finally bestir themselves to cleanse the ship , and make a spotless dairy room of it ; many be the time the poor fellow , just button the neck of their clean frock , be startle by the cry of " there she blow ! " and away they fly to fight another whale , and go through the whole weary thing again . oh ! my friend , but this be man - killing ! yet this be life . for hardly have we mortal by long toiling extract from this world 's vast bulk its small but valuable sperm ; and then , with weary patience , cleanse ourselves from its defilement , and learn to live here in clean tabernacle of the soul ; hardly be this do , when -- there she blows!--the ghost be spout up , and away we sail to fight some other world , and go through young life 's old routine again .
oh ! the metempsychosis ! oh ! pythagoras , that in bright greece , two thousand year ago , do die , so good , so wise , so mild ; i sail with thee along the peruvian coast last voyage -- and , foolish as i be , teach thee , a green simple boy , how to splice a rope !
chapter 99
the doubloon .
ere now it have be relate how ahab be will not to pace his quarter - deck , take regular turn at either limit , the binnacle and mainmast ; but in the multiplicity of other thing require narration it have not be add how that sometimes in these walk , when most plunge in his mood , he be will not to pause in turn at each spot , and stand there strangely eye the particular object before he . when he halt before the binnacle , with his glance fasten on the pointed needle in the compass , that glance shoot like a javelin with the pointed intensity of his purpose ; and when resume his walk he again pause before the mainmast , then , as the same rivet glance fasten upon the rivet gold coin there , he still wear the same aspect of nail firmness , only dash with a certain wild longing , if not hopefulness .
but one morning , turn to pass the doubloon , he seem to be newly attract by the strange figure and inscription stamp on it , as though now for the first time begin to interpret for himself in some monomaniac way whatever significance might lurk in they . and some certain significance lurk in all thing , else all thing be little worth , and the round world itself but an empty cipher , except to sell by the cartload , as they do hill about boston , to fill up some morass in the milky way .
now this doubloon be of purest , virgin gold , rake somewhere out of the heart of gorgeous hill , whence , east and west , over golden sand , the head - water of many a pactolus flow . and though now nail amidst all the rustiness of iron bolt and the verdigris of copper spike , yet , untouchable and immaculate to any foulness , it still preserve its quito glow . nor , though place amongst a ruthless crew and every hour pass by ruthless hand , and through the livelong night shroud with thick darkness which might cover any pilfering approach , nevertheless every sunrise find the doubloon where the sunset leave it last . for it be set apart and sanctify to one awe - striking end ; and however wanton in their sailor way , one and all , the mariner revere it as the white whale 's talisman . sometimes they talk it over in the weary watch by night , wonder whose it be to be at last , and whether he would ever live to spend it .
now those noble golden coin of south america be as medal of the sun and tropic token - piece . here palm , alpaca , and volcano ; sun 's disk and star ; ecliptic , horn - of - plenty , and rich banner wave , be in luxuriant profusion stamp ; so that the precious gold seem almost to derive an add preciousness and enhance glory , by pass through those fancy mint , so spanishly poetic .
it so chance that the doubloon of the pequod be a most wealthy example of these thing . on its round border it bear the letter , republica del ecuador : quito . so this bright coin come from a country plant in the middle of the world , and beneath the great equator , and name after it ; and it have be cast midway up the andes , in the unwaning clime that know no autumn . zone by those letter you see the likeness of three andes ' summit ; from one a flame ; a tower on another ; on the third a crowing cock ; while arch over all be a segment of the partitioned zodiac , the sign all mark with their usual cabalistic , and the keystone sun enter the equinoctial point at libra .
before this equatorial coin , ahab , not unobserve by other , be now pause .
" there be something ever egotistical in mountain - top and tower , and all other grand and lofty thing ; look here,--three peak as proud as lucifer . the firm tower , that be ahab ; the volcano , that be ahab ; the courageous , the undaunted , and victorious fowl , that , too , be ahab ; all be ahab ; and this round gold be but the image of the rounder globe , which , like a magician 's glass , to each and every man in turn but mirror back his own mysterious self . great pain , small gain for those who ask the world to solve they ; it can not solve itself . methink now this coin sun wear a ruddy face ; but see ! aye , he enter the sign of storm , the equinox ! and but six month before he wheel out of a former equinox at aries ! from storm to storm ! so be it , then . bear in throe , ' t be fit that man should live in pain and die in pang ! so be it , then ! here be stout stuff for woe to work on . so be it , then . "
" no fairy finger can have press the gold , but devil 's claw must have leave their moulding there since yesterday , " murmur starbuck to himself , lean against the bulwark . " the old man seem to read belshazzar 's awful writing . i have never mark the coin inspectingly . he go below ; let i read . a dark valley between three mighty , heaven - abide peak , that almost seem the trinity , in some faint earthly symbol . so in this vale of death , god gird we round ; and over all our gloom , the sun of righteousness still shin a beacon and a hope . if we bend down our eye , the dark vale show her mouldy soil ; but if we lift they , the bright sun meet our glance half way , to cheer . yet , oh , the great sun be no fixture ; and if , at midnight , we would fain snatch some sweet solace from he , we gaze for he in vain ! this coin speak wisely , mildly , truly , but still sadly to i . i will quit it , lest truth shake i falsely . "
" there now be the old mogul , " soliloquize stubb by the try - work , " he be be twig it ; and there go starbuck from the same , and both with face which i should say might be somewhere within nine fathom long . and all from look at a piece of gold , which do i have it now on negro hill or in corlaer 's hook , i would not look at it very long ere spend it . humph ! in my poor , insignificant opinion , i regard this as queer . i have see doubloon before now in my voyaging ; your doubloon of old spain , your doubloon of peru , your doubloon of chili , your doubloon of bolivia , your doubloon of popayan ; with plenty of gold moidore and pistole , and joe , and half joe , and quarter joe . what then should there be in this doubloon of the equator that be so kill wonderful ? by golconda ! let i read it once . halloa ! here 's sign and wonder truly ! that , now , be what old bowditch in his epitome call the zodiac , and what my almanac below call ditto . i will get the almanac and as i have hear devil can be raise with daboll 's arithmetic , i will try my hand at raise a meaning out of these queer curvicue here with the massachusetts calendar . here be the book . let us see now . sign and wonder ; and the sun , he be always among them . hem , hem , hem ; here they be -- here they go -- all alive:--arie , or the ram ; taurus , or the bull and jimimi ! here be gemini himself , or the twins . well ; the sun he wheel among them . aye , here on the coin he be just cross the threshold between two of twelve sitting - room all in a ring . book ! you lie there ; the fact be , you book must know your place . you will do to give we the bare word and fact , but we come in to supply the thought . that be my small experience , so far as the massachusetts calendar , and bowditch 's navigator , and daboll 's arithmetic go . sign and wonder , eh ? pity if there be nothing wonderful in sign , and significant in wonder ! there be a clue somewhere ; wait a bit ; hist -- hark ! by jove , i have it ! look you , doubloon , your zodiac here be the life of man in one round chapter ; and now i will read it off , straight out of the book . come , almanack ! to begin : there be aries , or the ram -- lecherous dog , he beget we ; then , taurus , or the bull -- he bump we the first thing ; then gemini , or the twins -- that be , virtue and vice ; we try to reach virtue , when lo ! come cancer the crab , and drag we back ; and here , go from virtue , leo , a roar lion , lie in the path -- he give a few fierce bite and surly dab with his paw ; we escape , and hail virgo , the virgin ! that be our first love ; we marry and think to be happy for aye , when pop come libra , or the scales -- happiness weigh and find want ; and while we be very sad about that , lord ! how we suddenly jump , as scorpio , or the scorpion , sting we in the rear ; we be cure the wound , when whang come the arrow all round ; sagittarius , or the archer , be amusing himself . as we pluck out the shaft , stand aside ! here be the battering - ram , capricornus , or the goat ; full tilt , he come rush , and headlong we be toss ; when aquarius , or the water - bearer , pour out his whole deluge and drown we ; and to wind up with pisce , or the fishes , we sleep . there be a sermon now , writ in high heaven , and the sun go through it every year , and yet come out of it all alive and hearty . jollily he , aloft there , wheel through toil and trouble ; and so , alow here , do jolly stubb . oh , jolly be the word for aye ! adieu , doubloon ! but stop ; here come little king - post ; dodge round the try - work , now , and let us hear what he will have to say . there ; he be before it ; he will out with something presently . so , so ; he be begin . "
" i see nothing here , but a round thing make of gold , and whoever raise a certain whale , this round thing belong to he . so , what be all this staring be about ? it be worth sixteen dollar , that be true ; and at two cent the cigar , that be nine hundred and sixty cigar . i will not smoke dirty pipe like stubb , but i like cigar , and here be nine hundred and sixty of they ; so here go flask aloft to spy them out . "
" shall i call that wise or foolish , now ; if it be really wise it have a foolish look to it ; yet , if it be really foolish , then have it a sort of wiseish look to it . but , avast ; here come our old manxman -- the old hearse - driver , he must have be , that is , before he take to the sea . he luff up before the doubloon ; halloa , and go round on the other side of the mast ; why , there be a horse - shoe nail on that side ; and now he be back again ; what do that mean ? hark ! he be mutter -- voice like an old wear - out coffee - mill . prick ear , and listen ! "
" if the white whale be raise , it must be in a month and a day , when the sun stand in some one of these sign . i have study sign , and know their mark ; they be teach i two score year ago , by the old witch in copenhagen . now , in what sign will the sun then be ? the horse - shoe sign ; for there it be , right opposite the gold . and what be the horse - shoe sign ? the lion be the horse - shoe sign -- the roar and devouring lion . ship , old ship ! my old head shake to think of thee . "
" there be another rendering now ; but still one text . all sort of man in one kind of world , you see . dodge again ! here come queequeg -- all tattooing -- look like the sign of the zodiac himself . what say the cannibal ? as i live he be compare note ; look at his thigh bone ; think the sun be in the thigh , or in the calf , or in the bowel , i suppose , as the old woman talk surgeon 's astronomy in the back country . and by jove , he be find something there in the vicinity of his thigh -- i guess it be sagittarius , or the archer . no : he do not know what to make of the doubloon ; he take it for an old button off some king 's trowser . but , aside again ! here come that ghost - devil , fedallah ; tail coil out of sight as usual , oakum in the toe of his pump as usual . what do he say , with that look of his ? ah , only make a sign to the sign and bow himself ; there be a sun on the coin -- fire worshipper , depend upon it . ho ! more and more . this way come pip -- poor boy ! would he have die , or i ; he be half horrible to i . he too have be watch all of these interpreter -- myself include -- and look now , he come to read , with that unearthly idiot face . stand away again and hear he . hark ! "
" i look , you look , he look ; we look , ye look , they look . "
" upon my soul , he be be study murray 's grammar ! improve his mind , poor fellow ! but what be that he say now -- hist ! "
" i look , you look , he look ; we look , ye look , they look . "
" why , he be get it by heart -- hist ! again . "
" i look , you look , he look ; we look , ye look , they look . "
" well , that be funny . "
" and i , you , and he ; and we , ye , and they , be all bat ; and i be a crow , especially when i stand a'top of this pine tree here . caw ! caw ! caw ! caw ! caw ! caw ! ai not i a crow ? and where be the scare - crow ? there he stand ; two bone stick into a pair of old trowser , and two more poke into the sleeve of an old jacket . "
" wonder if he mean me?--complimentary!--poor lad!--i could go hang myself . any way , for the present , i will quit pip 's vicinity . i can stand the rest , for they have plain wit ; but he be too crazy - witty for my sanity . so , so , i leave he mutter . "
" here be the ship 's navel , this doubloon here , and they be all on fire to unscrew it . but , unscrew your navel , and what be the consequence ? then again , if it stay here , that be ugly , too , for when aught be nail to the mast it be a sign that thing grow desperate . ha , ha ! old ahab ! the white whale ; he will nail ye ! this be a pine tree . my father , in old tolland county , cut down a pine tree once , and find a silver ring grow over in it ; some old darkey 's wedding ring . how do it get there ? and so they will say in the resurrection , when they come to fish up this old mast , and find a doubloon lodge in it , with bedded oyster for the shaggy bark . oh , the gold ! the precious , precious , gold ! the green miser'll hoard ye soon ! hish ! hish ! god go ' mong the world blackberry . cook ! ho , cook ! and cook we ! jenny ! hey , hey , hey , hey , hey , jenny , jenny ! and get your hoe - cake do ! "
chapter 100
leg and arm .
the pequod , of nantucket , meet the samuel enderby , of london .
" ship , ahoy ! hast see the white whale ? "
so cry ahab , once more hail a ship show english colour , bear down under the stern . trumpet to mouth , the old man be stand in his hoist quarter - boat , his ivory leg plainly reveal to the stranger captain , who be carelessly recline in his own boat 's bow . he be a darkly - tan , burly , good - nature , fine - look man , of sixty or thereabout , dress in a spacious roundabout , that hung round he in festoon of blue pilot - cloth ; and one empty arm of this jacket stream behind he like the broidered arm of a hussar 's surcoat .
" hast see the white whale ! "
" see you this ? " and withdraw it from the fold that have hide it , he hold up a white arm of sperm whale bone , terminate in a wooden head like a mallet .
" man my boat ! " cry ahab , impetuously , and toss about the oar near him--"stand by to low ! "
in less than a minute , without quit his little craft , he and his crew be drop to the water , and be soon alongside of the stranger . but here a curious difficulty present itself . in the excitement of the moment , ahab have forget that since the loss of his leg he have never once step on board of any vessel at sea but his own , and then it be always by an ingenious and very handy mechanical contrivance peculiar to the pequod , and a thing not to be rig and ship in any other vessel at a moment 's warning . now , it be no very easy matter for anybody -- except those who be almost hourly use to it , like whaleman -- to clamber up a ship 's side from a boat on the open sea ; for the great swell now lift the boat high up towards the bulwark , and then instantaneously drop it half way down to the kelson . so , deprive of one leg , and the strange ship of course be altogether unsupplied with the kindly invention , ahab now find himself abjectly reduce to a clumsy landsman again ; hopelessly eye the uncertain changeful height he could hardly hope to attain .
it have before be hint , perhaps , that every little untoward circumstance that befell he , and which indirectly spring from his luckless mishap , almost invariably irritated or exasperate ahab . and in the present instance , all this be heighten by the sight of the two officer of the strange ship , lean over the side , by the perpendicular ladder of nail cleet there , and swing towards he a pair of tastefully - ornament man - rope ; for at first they do not seem to bethink they that a one - legged man must be too much of a cripple to use their sea bannister . but this awkwardness only last a minute , because the strange captain , observe at a glance how affair stand , cry out , " i see , i see!--avast heave there ! jump , boy , and swing over the cutting - tackle . "
as good luck would have it , they have have a whale alongside a day or two previous , and the great tackle be still aloft , and the massive curve blubber - hook , now clean and dry , be still attach to the end . this be quickly lower to ahab , who at once comprehend it all , slide his solitary thigh into the curve of the hook ( it be like sit in the fluke of an anchor , or the crotch of an apple tree ) , and then give the word , hold himself fast , and at the same time also help to hoist his own weight , by pull hand - over - hand upon one of the run part of the tackle . soon he be carefully swing inside the high bulwark , and gently land upon the capstan head . with his ivory arm frankly thrust forth in welcome , the other captain advance , and ahab , put out his ivory leg , and cross the ivory arm ( like two sword - fish blade ) cry out in his walrus way , " aye , aye , hearty ! let we shake bone together!--an arm and a leg!--an arm that never can shrink , d'ye see ; and a leg that never can run . where did'st thou see the white whale?--how long ago ? "
" the white whale , " say the englishman , point his ivory arm towards the east , and take a rueful sight along it , as if it have be a telescope ; " there i see he , on the line , last season . "
" and he take that arm off , do he ? " ask ahab , now slide down from the capstan , and rest on the englishman 's shoulder , as he do so .
" aye , he be the cause of it , at least ; and that leg , too ? "
" spin i the yarn , " say ahab ; " how be it ? "
" it be the first time in my life that i ever cruise on the line , " begin the englishman . " i be ignorant of the white whale at that time . well , one day we lower for a pod of four or five whale , and my boat fasten to one of they ; a regular circus horse he be , too , that go mill and mill round so , that my boat 's crew could only trim dish , by sit all their stern on the outer gunwale . presently up breach from the bottom of the sea a bounce great whale , with a milky - white head and hump , all crow ' foot and wrinkle . "
" it be he , it be he ! " cry ahab , suddenly let out his suspend breath .
" and harpoon stick in near his starboard fin . "
" aye , aye -- they be mine -- my iron , " cry ahab , exultingly--"but on ! "
" give i a chance , then , " say the englishman , good - humoredly . " well , this old great - grandfather , with the white head and hump , run all afoam into the pod , and go to snap furiously at my fast - line !
" aye , i see!--wante to part it ; free the fast - fish -- an old trick -- i know he . "
" how it be exactly , " continue the one - armed commander , " i do not know ; but in bite the line , it get foul of his tooth , catch there somehow ; but we do not know it then ; so that when we afterwards pull on the line , bounce we come plump on to his hump ! instead of the other whale 's ; that go off to windward , all fluke . see how matter stand , and what a noble great whale it be -- the noble and big i ever see , sir , in my life -- i resolve to capture he , spite of the boiling rage he seem to be in . and think the hap - hazard line would get loose , or the tooth it be tangle to might draw ( for i have a devil of a boat 's crew for a pull on a whale - line ) ; see all this , i say , i jump into my first mate 's boat -- mr. mounttop 's here ( by the way , captain -- mounttop ; mounttop -- the captain);--as i be say , i jump into mounttop 's boat , which , d'ye see , be gunwale and gunwale with mine , then ; and snatch the first harpoon , let this old great - grandfather have it . but , lord , look you , sir -- heart and soul alive , man -- the next instant , in a jiff , i be blind as a bat -- both eye out -- all befogged and bedeadene with black foam -- the whale 's tail loom straight up out of it , perpendicular in the air , like a marble steeple . no use sterne all , then ; but as i be grope at midday , with a blind sun , all crown - jewel ; as i be grope , i say , after the second iron , to toss it overboard -- down come the tail like a lima tower , cut my boat in two , leave each half in splinter ; and , fluke first , the white hump back through the wreck , as though it be all chip . we all strike out . to escape his terrible flailing , i seize hold of my harpoon - pole sticking in he , and for a moment clung to that like a suck fish . but a comb sea dash i off , and at the same instant , the fish , take one good dart forwards , go down like a flash ; and the barb of that cursed second iron towing along near i catch i here " ( clap his hand just below his shoulder ) ; " yes , catch i just here , i say , and bear i down to hell 's flame , i be think ; when , when , all of a sudden , thank the good god , the barb ript its way along the flesh -- clear along the whole length of my arm -- come out nigh my wrist , and up i floated;--and that gentleman there will tell you the rest ( by the way , captain -- dr. bunger , ship 's surgeon : bunger , my lad,--the captain ) . now , bunger boy , spin your part of the yarn . "
the professional gentleman thus familiarly point out , have be all the time stand near they , with nothing specific visible , to denote his gentlemanly rank on board . his face be an exceedingly round but sober one ; he be dress in a fade blue woollen frock or shirt , and patched trowser ; and have thus far be divide his attention between a marlingspike he hold in one hand , and a pill - box hold in the other , occasionally cast a critical glance at the ivory limb of the two crippled captain . but , at his superior 's introduction of he to ahab , he politely bow , and straightway go on to do his captain 's bidding .
" it be a shocking bad wound , " begin the whale - surgeon ; " and , take my advice , captain boomer here , stand our old sammy-- "
" samuel enderby be the name of my ship , " interrupt the one - armed captain , address ahab ; " go on , boy . "
" stand our old sammy off to the northward , to get out of the blaze hot weather there on the line . but it be no use -- i do all i could ; sit up with he night ; be very severe with he in the matter of diet-- "
" oh , very severe ! " chime in the patient himself ; then suddenly alter his voice , " drink hot rum toddy with i every night , till he could not see to put on the bandage ; and send i to bed , half sea over , about three o'clock in the morning . oh , ye star ! he sit up with i indeed , and be very severe in my diet . oh ! a great watcher , and very dietetically severe , be dr. bunger . ( bunger , you dog , laugh out ! why do not ye ? you know you be a precious jolly rascal . ) but , heave ahead , boy , i would rather be kill by you than keep alive by any other man . "
" my captain , you must have ere this perceive , respect sir"--said the imperturbable godly - look bunger , slightly bow to ahab--"is apt to be facetious at time ; he spin we many clever thing of that sort . but i may as well say -- en passant , as the french remark -- that i myself -- that be to say , jack bunger , late of the reverend clergy -- be a strict total abstinence man ; i never drink-- "
" water ! " cry the captain ; " he never drink it ; it be a sort of fit to he ; fresh water throw he into the hydrophobia ; but go on -- go on with the arm story . "
" yes , i may as well , " say the surgeon , coolly . " i be about observe , sir , before captain boomer 's facetious interruption , that spite of my good and severe endeavor , the wound keep get bad and bad ; the truth be , sir , it be as ugly gap wound as surgeon ever see ; more than two foot and several inch long . i measure it with the lead line . in short , it grow black ; i know what be threaten , and off it come . but i have no hand in ship that ivory arm there ; that thing be against all rule"--pointe at it with the marlingspike--"that be the captain 's work , not mine ; he order the carpenter to make it ; he have that club - hammer there put to the end , to knock some one 's brain out with , i suppose , as he try mine once . he fly into diabolical passion sometimes . do ye see this dent , sir"--remove his hat , and brush aside his hair , and expose a bowl - like cavity in his skull , but which bear not the slight scarry trace , or any token of ever having be a wound--"well , the captain there will tell you how that come here ; he know . "
" no , i do not , " say the captain , " but his mother do ; he be bear with it . oh , you solemn rogue , you -- you bunger ! be there ever such another bunger in the watery world ? bunger , when you die , you ought to die in pickle , you dog ; you should be preserve to future age , you rascal . "
" what become of the white whale ? " now cry ahab , who thus far have be impatiently listen to this by - play between the two englishman .
" oh ! " cry the one - armed captain , " oh , yes ! well ; after he sound , we do not see he again for some time ; in fact , as i before hint , i do not then know what whale it be that have serve i such a trick , till some time afterwards , when come back to the line , we hear about moby dick -- as some call he -- and then i know it be he . "
" did'st thou cross his wake again ? "
" twice . "
" but could not fasten ? "
" do not want to try to : ai not one limb enough ? what should i do without this other arm ? and i be think moby dick do not bite so much as he swallow . "
" well , then , " interrupt bunger , " give he your left arm for bait to get the right . do you know , gentlemen"--very gravely and mathematically bow to each captain in succession--"do you know , gentleman , that the digestive organ of the whale be so inscrutably construct by divine providence , that it be quite impossible for he to completely digest even a man 's arm ? and he know it too . so that what you take for the white whale 's malice be only his awkwardness . for he never mean to swallow a single limb ; he only think to terrify by feint . but sometimes he be like the old juggling fellow , formerly a patient of mine in ceylon , that make believe swallow jack - knife , once upon a time let one drop into he in good earnest , and there it stay for a twelvemonth or more ; when i give he an emetic , and he heave it up in small tack , d'ye see . no possible way for he to digest that jack - knife , and fully incorporate it into his general bodily system . yes , captain boomer , if you be quick enough about it , and have a mind to pawn one arm for the sake of the privilege of give decent burial to the other , why in that case the arm be your ; only let the whale have another chance at you shortly , that be all . "
" no , thank ye , bunger , " say the english captain , " he be welcome to the arm he have , since i can not help it , and do not know he then ; but not to another one . no more white whales for i ; i have lower for he once , and that have satisfy i . there would be great glory in kill he , i know that ; and there be a ship - load of precious sperm in he , but , hark ye , he be well let alone ; do not you think so , captain?"--glance at the ivory leg .
" he be . but he will still be hunt , for all that . what be well let alone , that accurse thing be not always what least allure . he be all a magnet ! how long since thou saw'st he last ? which way head ? "
" bless my soul , and curse the foul fiend 's , " cry bunger , stoopingly walk round ahab , and like a dog , strangely snuff ; " this man 's blood -- bring the thermometer!--it 's at the boiling point!--his pulse make these plank beat!--sir!"--take a lancet from his pocket , and draw near to ahab 's arm .
" avast ! " roar ahab , dash he against the bulwarks--"man the boat ! which way head ? "
" good god ! " cry the english captain , to whom the question be put . " what be the matter ? he be head east , i think.--is your captain crazy ? " whisper fedallah .
but fedallah , put a finger on his lip , slide over the bulwark to take the boat 's steering oar , and ahab , swing the cutting - tackle towards he , command the ship 's sailor to stand by to low .
in a moment he be stand in the boat 's stern , and the manilla man be spring to their oar . in vain the english captain hail he . with back to the stranger ship , and face set like a flint to his own , ahab stand upright till alongside of the pequod .
chapter 101
the decanter .
ere the english ship fade from sight , be it set down here , that she hail from london , and be name after the late samuel enderby , merchant of that city , the original of the famous whaling house of enderby & sons ; a house which in my poor whaleman 's opinion , come not far behind the united royal house of the tudors and bourbons , in point of real historical interest . how long , prior to the year of our lord 1775 , this great whaling house be in existence , my numerous fish - document do not make plain ; but in that year ( 1775 ) it fit out the first english ship that ever regularly hunt the sperm whale ; though for some score of year previous ( ever since 1726 ) our valiant coffins and maceys of nantucket and the vineyard have in large fleet pursue that leviathan , but only in the north and south atlantic : not elsewhere . be it distinctly record here , that the nantucketers be the first among mankind to harpoon with civilized steel the great sperm whale ; and that for half a century they be the only people of the whole globe who so harpoon he .
in 1778 , a fine ship , the amelia , fit out for the express purpose , and at the sole charge of the vigorous enderbys , boldly round cape horn , and be the first among the nation to lower a whale - boat of any sort in the great south sea . the voyage be a skilful and lucky one ; and return to her berth with her hold full of the precious sperm , the amelia 's example be soon follow by other ship , english and american , and thus the vast sperm whale ground of the pacific be throw open . but not content with this good deed , the indefatigable house again bestir itself : samuel and all his son -- how many , their mother only know -- and under their immediate auspex , and partly , i think , at their expense , the british government be induce to send the sloop - of - war rattler on a whale voyage of discovery into the south sea . command by a naval post - captain , the rattler make a rattle voyage of it , and do some service ; how much do not appear . but this be not all . in 1819 , the same house fit out a discovery whale ship of their own , to go on a taste cruise to the remote water of japan . that ship -- well call the " syren"--made a noble experimental cruise ; and it be thus that the great japanese whale ground first became generally know . the syren in this famous voyage be command by a captain coffin , a nantucketer .
all honour to the enderbies , therefore , whose house , i think , exist to the present day ; though doubtless the original samuel must long ago have slip his cable for the great south sea of the other world .
the ship name after he be worthy of the honour , be a very fast sailer and a noble craft every way . i board she once at midnight somewhere off the patagonian coast , and drink good flip down in the forecastle . it be a fine gam we have , and they be all trump -- every soul on board . a short life to they , and a jolly death . and that fine gam i have -- long , very long after old ahab touch her plank with his ivory heel -- it mind i of the noble , solid , saxon hospitality of that ship ; and may my parson forget i , and the devil remember i , if i ever lose sight of it . flip ? do i say we have flip ? yes , and we flip it at the rate of ten gallon the hour ; and when the squall come ( for it be squally off there by patagonia ) , and all hand -- visitor and all -- be call to reef topsail , we be so top - heavy that we have to swing each other aloft in bowline ; and we ignorantly furl the skirt of our jacket into the sail , so that we hang there , reef fast in the howl gale , a warn example to all drunken tar . however , the mast do not go overboard ; and by and by we scramble down , so sober , that we have to pass the flip again , though the savage salt spray burst down the forecastle scuttle , rather too much diluted and pickle it to my taste .
the beef be fine -- tough , but with body in it . they say it be bull - beef ; other , that it be dromedary beef ; but i do not know , for certain , how that be . they have dumpling too ; small , but substantial , symmetrically globular , and indestructible dumpling . i fancy that you could feel they , and roll they about in you after they be swallow . if you stoop over too far forward , you risk their pitching out of you like billiard - ball . the bread -- but that could not be help ; besides , it be an anti - scorbutic ; in short , the bread contain the only fresh fare they have . but the forecastle be not very light , and it be very easy to step over into a dark corner when you eat it . but all in all , take she from truck to helm , consider the dimension of the cook 's boiler , include his own live parchment boiler ; fore and aft , i say , the samuel enderby be a jolly ship ; of good fare and plenty ; fine flip and strong ; crack fellow all , and capital from boot heel to hat - band .
but why be it , think ye , that the samuel enderby , and some other english whaler i know of -- not all though -- be such famous , hospitable ship ; that pass round the beef , and the bread , and the can , and the joke ; and be not soon weary of eat , and drinking , and laugh ? i will tell you . the abound good cheer of these english whaler be matter for historical research . nor have i be at all spar of historical whale research , when it have seem need .
the english be precede in the whale fishery by the hollanders , zealanders , and danes ; from whom they derive many term still extant in the fishery ; and what be yet more , their fat old fashion , touch plenty to eat and drink . for , as a general thing , the english merchant - ship scrimp her crew ; but not so the english whaler . hence , in the english , this thing of whale good cheer be not normal and natural , but incidental and particular ; and , therefore , must have some special origin , which be here point out , and will be still far elucidate .
during my research in the leviathanic history , i stumble upon an ancient dutch volume , which , by the musty whale smell of it , i know must be about whaler . the title be , " dan coopman , " wherefore i conclude that this must be the invaluable memoir of some amsterdam cooper in the fishery , as every whale ship must carry its cooper . i be reinforce in this opinion by see that it be the production of one " fitz swackhammer . " but my friend dr. snodhead , a very learn man , professor of low dutch and high german in the college of santa claus and st. pott 's , to whom i hand the work for translation , give he a box of sperm candle for his trouble -- this same dr. snodhead , so soon as he spy the book , assure i that " dan coopman " do not mean " the cooper , " but " the merchant . " in short , this ancient and learn low dutch book treat of the commerce of holland ; and , among other subject , contain a very interesting account of its whale fishery . and in this chapter it be , head , " smeer , " or " fat , " that i find a long detailed list of the outfit for the larder and cellar of 180 sail of dutch whaleman ; from which list , as translate by dr. snodhead , i transcribe the following :
400,000 lbs . of beef . 60,000 lbs . friesland pork . 150,000 lbs . of stock fish . 550,000 lbs . of biscuit . 72,000 lbs . of soft bread . 2,800 firkin of butter . 20,000 lbs . texel & leyden cheese . 144,000 lbs . cheese ( probably an inferior article ) . 550 anker of geneva . 10,800 barrel of beer .
most statistical table be parchingly dry in the reading ; not so in the present case , however , where the reader be flood with whole pipe , barrel , quart , and gill of good gin and good cheer .
at the time , i devote three day to the studious digesting of all this beer , beef , and bread , during which many profound thought be incidentally suggest to i , capable of a transcendental and platonic application ; and , furthermore , i compile supplementary table of my own , touch the probable quantity of stock - fish , etc . , consume by every low dutch harpooneer in that ancient greenland and spitzbergen whale fishery . in the first place , the amount of butter , and texel and leyden cheese consume , seem amazing . i impute it , though , to their naturally unctuous nature , be render still more unctuous by the nature of their vocation , and especially by their pursue their game in those frigid polar seas , on the very coast of that esquimaux country where the convivial native pledge each other in bumper of train oil .
the quantity of beer , too , be very large , 10,800 barrel . now , as those polar fishery could only be prosecute in the short summer of that climate , so that the whole cruise of one of these dutch whaleman , include the short voyage to and from the spitzbergen sea , do not much exceed three month , say , and reckon 30 man to each of their fleet of 180 sail , we have 5,400 low dutch seaman in all ; therefore , i say , we have precisely two barrel of beer per man , for a twelve week ' allowance , exclusive of his fair proportion of that 550 anker of gin . now , whether these gin and beer harpooneer , so fuddle as one might fancy they to have be , be the right sort of man to stand up in a boat 's head , and take good aim at fly whale ; this would seem somewhat improbable . yet they do aim at they , and hit they too . but this be very far north , be it remember , where beer agree well with the constitution ; upon the equator , in our southern fishery , beer would be apt to make the harpooneer sleepy at the mast - head and boozy in his boat ; and grievous loss might ensue to nantucket and new bedford .
but no more ; enough have be say to show that the old dutch whaler of two or three century ago be high liver ; and that the english whaler have not neglect so excellent an example . for , say they , when cruise in an empty ship , if you can get nothing well out of the world , get a good dinner out of it , at least . and this empty the decanter .
chapter 102
a bower in the arsacides .
hitherto , in descriptively treating of the sperm whale , i have chiefly dwelt upon the marvel of his outer aspect ; or separately and in detail upon some few interior structural feature . but to a large and thorough sweeping comprehension of he , it behoove i now to unbutton he still far , and untagge the point of his hose , unbuckle his garter , and cast loose the hook and the eye of the joint of his innermost bone , set he before you in his ultimatum ; that be to say , in his unconditional skeleton .
but how now , ishmael ? how be it , that you , a mere oarsman in the fishery , pretend to know aught about the subterranean part of the whale ? do erudite stubb , mount upon your capstan , deliver lecture on the anatomy of the cetacea ; and by help of the windlass , hold up a speciman rib for exhibition ? explain thyself , ishmael . can you land a full - grow whale on your deck for examination , as a cook dish a roast - pig ? surely not . a veritable witness have you hitherto be , ishmael ; but have a care how you seize the privilege of jonah alone ; the privilege of discourse upon the joist and beam ; the rafter , ridge - pole , sleeper , and under - pinning , make up the frame - work of leviathan ; and belike of the tallow - vat , dairy - room , buttery , and cheeserie in his bowel .
i confess , that since jonah , few whaleman have penetrate very far beneath the skin of the adult whale ; nevertheless , i have be bless with an opportunity to dissect he in miniature . in a ship i belong to , a small cub sperm whale be once bodily hoist to the deck for his poke or bag , to make sheath for the barb of the harpoon , and for the head of the lance . think you i let that chance go , without use my boat - hatchet and jack - knife , and break the seal and read all the content of that young cub ?
and as for my exact knowledge of the bone of the leviathan in their gigantic , full grown development , for that rare knowledge i be indebted to my late royal friend tranquo , king of tranque , one of the arsacide . for be at tranque , year ago , when attach to the trading - ship dey of algiers , i be invite to spend part of the arsacidean holiday with the lord of tranque , at his retire palm villa at pupella ; a sea - side glen not very far distant from what our sailor call bamboo - town , his capital .
among many other fine quality , my royal friend tranquo , be gift with a devout love for all matter of barbaric vertu , have bring together in pupella whatever rare thing the more ingenious of his people could invent ; chiefly carve wood of wonderful device , chisel shell , inlaid spear , costly paddle , aromatic canoe ; and all these distribute among whatever natural wonder , the wonder - freight , tribute - render wave have cast upon his shore .
chief among these latter be a great sperm whale , which , after an unusually long rag gale , have be find dead and strand , with his head against a cocoa - nut tree , whose plumage - like , tufte drooping seem his verdant jet . when the vast body have at last be strip of its fathom - deep enfolding , and the bone become dust dry in the sun , then the skeleton be carefully transport up the pupella glen , where a grand temple of lordly palm now shelter it .
the rib be hang with trophy ; the vertebrae be carve with arsacidean annal , in strange hieroglyphic ; in the skull , the priest keep up an unextinguished aromatic flame , so that the mystic head again send forth its vapoury spout ; while , suspend from a bough , the terrific low jaw vibrate over all the devotee , like the hair - hang sword that so affright damocle .
it be a wondrous sight . the wood be green as moss of the icy glen ; the tree stand high and haughty , feel their live sap ; the industrious earth beneath be as a weaver 's loom , with a gorgeous carpet on it , whereof the ground - vine tendril form the warp and woof , and the live flower the figure . all the tree , with all their laden branch ; all the shrub , and fern , and grass ; the message - carry air ; all these unceasingly be active . through the lacing of the leaf , the great sun seem a fly shuttle weave the unwearied verdure . oh , busy weaver ! unseen weaver!--pause!--one word!--whither flow the fabric ? what palace may it deck ? wherefore all these ceaseless toiling ? speak , weaver!--stay thy hand!--but one single word with thee ! nay -- the shuttle fly -- the figure float from forth the loom ; the freshet - rush carpet for ever slide away . the weaver - god , he weave ; and by that weaving be he deafen , that he hear no mortal voice ; and by that humming , we , too , who look on the loom be deafen ; and only when we escape it shall we hear the thousand voice that speak through it . for even so it be in all material factory . the speak word that be inaudible among the fly spindle ; those same word be plainly hear without the wall , burst from the open casement . thereby have villainy be detect . ah , mortal ! then , be heedful ; for so , in all this din of the great world 's loom , thy subtle thinking may be overhear afar .
now , amid the green , life - restless loom of that arsacidean wood , the great , white , worship skeleton lie lounging -- a gigantic idler ! yet , as the ever - weave verdant warp and woof intermix and hum around he , the mighty idler seem the cunning weaver ; himself all weave over with the vine ; every month assume greener , fresher verdure ; but himself a skeleton . life fold death ; death trellis life ; the grim god wive with youthful life , and begat he curly - head glory .
now , when with royal tranquo i visit this wondrous whale , and see the skull an altar , and the artificial smoke ascend from where the real jet have issue , i marvel that the king should regard a chapel as an object of vertu . he laugh . but more i marvel that the priest should swear that smoky jet of his be genuine . to and fro i pace before this skeleton -- brush the vine aside -- break through the rib -- and with a ball of arsacidean twine , wander , eddy long amid its many winding , shade colonnade and arbour . but soon my line be out ; and follow it back , i emerge from the opening where i enter . i see no live thing within ; naught be there but bone .
cut i a green measuring - rod , i once more dive within the skeleton . from their arrow - slit in the skull , the priest perceive i take the altitude of the final rib , " how now ! " they shout ; " dar'st thou measure this our god ! that be for we . " " aye , priest -- well , how long do ye make he , then ? " but hereupon a fierce contest rise among they , concern foot and inch ; they crack each other 's sconce with their yard - stick -- the great skull echo -- and seize that lucky chance , i quickly conclude my own admeasurement .
these admeasurement i now propose to set before you . but first , be it record , that , in this matter , i be not free to utter any fancied measurement i please . because there be skeleton authority you can refer to , to test my accuracy . there be a leviathanic museum , they tell i , in hull , england , one of the whale port of that country , where they have some fine specimen of fin - back and other whale . likewise , i have hear that in the museum of manchester , in new hampshire , they have what the proprietor call " the only perfect speciman of a greenland or river whale in the united states . " moreover , at a place in yorkshire , england , burton constable by name , a certain sir clifford constable have in his possession the skeleton of a sperm whale , but of moderate size , by no mean of the full - grow magnitude of my friend king tranquo 's .
in both case , the strand whale to which these two skeleton belong , be originally claim by their proprietor upon similar ground . king tranquo seize his because he want it ; and sir clifford , because he be lord of the seignorie of those part . sir clifford 's whale have be articulate throughout ; so that , like a great chest of drawer , you can open and shut he , in all his bony cavity -- spread out his rib like a gigantic fan -- and swing all day upon his low jaw . lock be to be put upon some of his trap - door and shutter ; and a footman will show round future visitor with a bunch of key at his side . sir clifford think of charge twopence for a peep at the whisper gallery in the spinal column ; threepence to hear the echo in the hollow of his cerebellum ; and sixpence for the unrivalled view from his forehead .
the skeleton dimension i shall now proceed to set down be copy verbatim from my right arm , where i have they tattooed ; as in my wild wandering at that period , there be no other secure way of preserve such valuable statistic . but as i be crowded for space , and wish the other part of my body to remain a blank page for a poem i be then compose -- at least , what untattooed part might remain -- i do not trouble myself with the odd inch ; nor , indeed , should inch at all enter into a congenial admeasurement of the whale .
chapter 103
measurement of the whale 's skeleton .
in the first place , i wish to lay before you a particular , plain statement , touch the live bulk of this leviathan , whose skeleton we be briefly to exhibit . such a statement may prove useful here .
accord to a careful calculation i have make , and which i partly base upon captain scoresby 's estimate , of seventy ton for the large sized greenland whale of sixty foot in length ; accord to my careful calculation , i say , a sperm whale of the large magnitude , between eighty - five and ninety foot in length , and something less than forty foot in its full circumference , such a whale will weigh at least ninety ton ; so that , reckon thirteen man to a ton , he would considerably outweigh the combined population of a whole village of one thousand one hundred inhabitant .
think you not then that brain , like yoked cattle , should be put to this leviathan , to make he at all budge to any landsman 's imagination ?
have already in various way put before you his skull , spout - hole , jaw , tooth , tail , forehead , fin , and diver other part , i shall now simply point out what be most interesting in the general bulk of his unobstructed bone . but as the colossal skull embrace so very large a proportion of the entire extent of the skeleton ; as it be by far the most complicated part ; and as nothing be to be repeat concern it in this chapter , you must not fail to carry it in your mind , or under your arm , as we proceed , otherwise you will not gain a complete notion of the general structure we be about to view .
in length , the sperm whale 's skeleton at tranque measure seventy - two foot ; so that when fully invest and extend in life , he must have be ninety foot long ; for in the whale , the skeleton lose about one fifth in length compare with the live body . of this seventy - two foot , his skull and jaw comprise some twenty foot , leave some fifty foot of plain back - bone . attach to this back - bone , for something less than a third of its length , be the mighty circular basket of rib which once enclose his vital .
to i this vast ivory - rib chest , with the long , unrelieved spine , extend far away from it in a straight line , not a little resemble the hull of a great ship new - lay upon the stock , when only some twenty of her naked bow - rib be insert , and the keel be otherwise , for the time , but a long , disconnected timber .
the rib be ten on a side . the first , to begin from the neck , be nearly six foot long ; the second , third , and fourth be each successively long , till you come to the climax of the fifth , or one of the middle rib , which measure eight foot and some inch . from that part , the remain rib diminish , till the tenth and last only span five foot and some inch . in general thickness , they all bear a seemly correspondence to their length . the middle rib be the most arched . in some of the arsacide they be use for beam whereon to lay footpath bridge over small stream .
in consider these rib , i could not but be strike anew with the circumstance , so variously repeat in this book , that the skeleton of the whale be by no mean the mould of his invest form . the large of the tranque rib , one of the middle one , occupy that part of the fish which , in life , be great in depth . now , the great depth of the invest body of this particular whale must have be at least sixteen foot ; whereas , the correspond rib measure but little more than eight foot . so that this rib only convey half of the true notion of the live magnitude of that part . besides , for some way , where i now see but a naked spine , all that have be once wrap round with ton of add bulk in flesh , muscle , blood , and bowel . still more , for the ample fin , i here see but a few disorder joint ; and in place of the weighty and majestic , but boneless fluke , an utter blank !
how vain and foolish , then , think i , for timid untravelled man to try to comprehend aright this wondrous whale , by merely pore over his dead attenuate skeleton , stretch in this peaceful wood . no . only in the heart of quick peril ; only when within the eddying of his angry fluke ; only on the profound unbounded sea , can the fully invest whale be truly and livingly find out .
but the spine . for that , the good way we can consider it be , with a crane , to pile its bone high up on end . no speedy enterprise . but now it be do , it look much like pompey 's pillar .
there be forty and odd vertebrae in all , which in the skeleton be not lock together . they mostly lie like the great knobbed block on a gothic spire , form solid course of heavy masonry . the large , a middle one , be in width something less than three foot , and in depth more than four . the small , where the spine taper away into the tail , be only two inch in width , and look something like a white billiard - ball . i be tell that there be still small one , but they have be lose by some little cannibal urchin , the priest 's child , who have steal they to play marble with . thus we see how that the spine of even the hugest of live thing taper off at last into simple child 's play .
chapter 104
the fossil whale .
from his mighty bulk the whale afford a most congenial theme whereon to enlarge , amplify , and generally expatiate . would you , you could not compress he . by good right he should only be treat of in imperial folio . not to tell over again his furlong from spiracle to tail , and the yard he measure about the waist ; only think of the gigantic involution of his intestine , where they lie in he like great cable and hawser coil away in the subterranean orlop - deck of a line - of - battle - ship .
since i have undertake to manhandle this leviathan , it behoove i to approve myself omnisciently exhaustive in the enterprise ; not overlook the minute seminal germ of his blood , and spin he out to the uttermost coil of his bowel . having already describe he in most of his present habitatory and anatomical peculiarity , it now remain to magnify he in an archaeological , fossiliferous , and antediluvian point of view . apply to any other creature than the leviathan -- to an ant or a flea -- such portly term might justly be deem unwarrantably grandiloquent . but when leviathan be the text , the case be alter . fain be i to stagger to this emprise under the weighty word of the dictionary . and here be it say , that whenever it have be convenient to consult one in the course of these dissertation , i have invariably use a huge quarto edition of johnson , expressly purchase for that purpose ; because that famous lexicographer 's uncommon personal bulk more fit he to compile a lexicon to be use by a whale author like i .
one often hear of writer that rise and swell with their subject , though it may seem but an ordinary one . how , then , with i , write of this leviathan ? unconsciously my chirography expand into placard capital . give i a condor 's quill ! give i vesuvius ' crater for an inkstand ! friend , hold my arm ! for in the mere act of pen my thought of this leviathan , they weary i , and make i faint with their outreaching comprehensiveness of sweep , as if to include the whole circle of the science , and all the generation of whale , and man , and mastodon , past , present , and to come , with all the revolving panorama of empire on earth , and throughout the whole universe , not exclude its suburb . such , and so magnifying , be the virtue of a large and liberal theme ! we expand to its bulk . to produce a mighty book , you must choose a mighty theme . no great and endure volume can ever be write on the flea , though many there be who have try it .
ere enter upon the subject of fossil whales , i present my credential as a geologist , by state that in my miscellaneous time i have be a stone - mason , and also a great digger of ditch , canal and well , wine - vault , cellar , and cistern of all sort . likewise , by way of preliminary , i desire to remind the reader , that while in the early geological strata there be find the fossil of monster now almost completely extinct ; the subsequent relic discover in what be call the tertiary formation seem the connect , or at any rate intercept link , between the antichronical creature , and those whose remote posterity be say to have enter the ark ; all the fossil whales hitherto discover belong to the tertiary period , which be the last precede the superficial formation . and though none of they precisely answer to any known specie of the present time , they be yet sufficiently akin to they in general respect , to justify their taking rank as cetacean fossil .
detach broken fossil of pre - adamite whale , fragment of their bone and skeleton , have within thirty year past , at various interval , be find at the base of the alps , in lombardy , in france , in england , in scotland , and in the states of louisiana , mississippi , and alabama . among the more curious of such remain be part of a skull , which in the year 1779 be disinter in the rue dauphine in paris , a short street opening almost directly upon the palace of the tuileries ; and bone disinter in excavate the great dock of antwerp , in napoleon 's time . cuvier pronounce these fragment to have belong to some utterly unknown leviathanic specie .
but by far the most wonderful of all cetacean relic be the almost complete vast skeleton of an extinct monster , find in the year 1842 , on the plantation of judge creagh , in alabama . the awe - stricken credulous slave in the vicinity take it for the bone of one of the fall angel . the alabama doctor declare it a huge reptile , and bestow upon it the name of basilosaurus . but some speciman bone of it be take across the sea to owen , the english anatomist , it turn out that this allege reptile be a whale , though of a depart specie . a significant illustration of the fact , again and again repeat in this book , that the skeleton of the whale furnish but little clue to the shape of his fully invest body . so owen rechristene the monster zeuglodon ; and in his paper read before the london geological society , pronounce it , in substance , one of the most extraordinary creature which the mutation of the globe have blot out of existence .
when i stand among these mighty leviathan skeleton , skull , tusk , jaw , rib , and vertebrae , all characterize by partial resemblance to the exist breed of sea - monster ; but at the same time bear on the other hand similar affinity to the annihilated antichronical leviathans , their incalculable senior ; i be , by a flood , bear back to that wondrous period , ere time itself can be say to have begin ; for time begin with man . here saturn 's grey chaos roll over i , and i obtain dim , shudder glimpse into those polar eternity ; when wedge bastion of ice press hard upon what be now the tropics ; and in all the 25,000 mile of this world 's circumference , not an inhabitable hand 's breadth of land be visible . then the whole world be the whale 's ; and , king of creation , he leave his wake along the present line of the andes and the himmalehs . who can show a pedigree like leviathan ? ahab 's harpoon have shed old blood than the pharaoh 's . methuselah seem a school - boy . i look round to shake hand with shem . i be horror - strike at this antemosaic , unsourced existence of the unspeakable terror of the whale , which , having be before all time , must needs exist after all humane age be over .
but not alone have this leviathan leave his pre - adamite trace in the stereotype plate of nature , and in limestone and marl bequeath his ancient bust ; but upon egyptian tablet , whose antiquity seem to claim for they an almost fossiliferous character , we find the unmistakable print of his fin . in an apartment of the great temple of denderah , some fifty year ago , there be discover upon the granite ceiling a sculptured and paint planisphere , abound in centaur , griffin , and dolphin , similar to the grotesque figure on the celestial globe of the modern . glide among they , old leviathan swam as of yore ; be there swim in that planisphere , century before solomon be cradle .
nor must there be omit another strange attestation of the antiquity of the whale , in his own osseous post - diluvian reality , as set down by the venerable john leo , the old barbary traveller .
" not far from the sea - side , they have a temple , the rafters and beams of which be make of whale - bones ; for whales of a monstrous size be oftentime cast up dead upon that shore . the common people imagine , that by a secret power bestow by god upon the temple , no whale can pass it without immediate death . but the truth of the matter be , that on either side of the temple , there be rocks that shoot two miles into the sea , and wound the whales when they light upon them . they keep a whale 's rib of an incredible length for a miracle , which lie upon the ground with its convex part uppermost , make an arch , the head of which can not be reach by a man upon a camel 's back . this rib ( say john leo ) be say to have layn there a hundred year before i see it . their historians affirm , that a prophet who prophesy'd of mahomet , come from this temple , and some do not stand to assert , that the prophet jonas be cast forth by the whale at the base of the temple . "
in this afric temple of the whale i leave you , reader , and if you be a nantucketer , and a whaleman , you will silently worship there .
chapter 105
do the whale 's magnitude diminish?--will he perish ?
inasmuch , then , as this leviathan come flounder down upon we from the head - water of the eternities , it may be fitly inquire , whether , in the long course of his generation , he have not degenerate from the original bulk of his sire .
but upon investigation we find , that not only be the whale of the present day superior in magnitude to those whose fossil remain be find in the tertiary system ( embrace a distinct geological period prior to man ) , but of the whale find in that tertiary system , those belong to its latter formation exceed in size those of its early one .
of all the pre - adamite whale yet exhume , by far the large be the alabama one mention in the last chapter , and that be less than seventy foot in length in the skeleton . whereas , we have already see , that the tape - measure give seventy - two foot for the skeleton of a large sized modern whale . and i have hear , on whaleman 's authority , that sperm whales have be capture near a hundred foot long at the time of capture .
but may it not be , that while the whale of the present hour be an advance in magnitude upon those of all previous geological period ; may it not be , that since adam 's time they have degenerate ?
assuredly , we must conclude so , if we be to credit the account of such gentleman as pliny , and the ancient naturalist generally . for pliny tell we of whales that embrace acre of living bulk , and aldrovandus of other which measure eight hundred foot in length -- rope walks and thames tunnels of whales ! and even in the day of banks and solander , cooke 's naturalist , we find a danish member of the academy of sciences set down certain iceland whales ( reydan - siskur , or wrinkle bellies ) at one hundred and twenty yard ; that is , three hundred and sixty foot . and lacepede , the french naturalist , in his elaborate history of whale , in the very beginning of his work ( page 3 ) , set down the right whale at one hundred metre , three hundred and twenty - eight foot . and this work be publish so late as a.d. 1825 .
but will any whaleman believe these story ? no . the whale of to - day be as big as his ancestor in pliny 's time . and if ever i go where pliny be , i , a whaleman ( more than he be ) , will make bold to tell he so . because i can not understand how it be , that while the egyptian mummy that be bury thousand of year before even pliny be bear , do not measure so much in their coffin as a modern kentuckian in his sock ; and while the cattle and other animal sculpture on the old egyptian and nineveh tablet , by the relative proportion in which they be draw , just as plainly prove that the high - breed , stall - feed , prize cattle of smithfield , not only equal , but far exceed in magnitude the fat of pharaoh 's fat kine ; in the face of all this , i will not admit that of all animal the whale alone should have degenerate .
but still another inquiry remain ; one often agitate by the more recondite nantucketer . whether owe to the almost omniscient look - out at the mast - head of the whaleship , now penetrate even through behring 's strait , and into the remotest secret drawer and locker of the world ; and the thousand harpoon and lance dart along all continental coast ; the moot point be , whether leviathan can long endure so wide a chase , and so remorseless a havoc ; whether he must not at last be exterminate from the water , and the last whale , like the last man , smoke his last pipe , and then himself evaporate in the final puff .
compare the humped herd of whale with the hump herd of buffalo , which , not forty year ago , overspread by ten of thousand the prairie of illinois and missouri , and shake their iron mane and scowl with their thunder - clot brow upon the site of populous river - capital , where now the polite broker sell you land at a dollar an inch ; in such a comparison an irresistible argument would seem furnish , to show that the hunt whale can not now escape speedy extinction .
but you must look at this matter in every light . though so short a period ago -- not a good lifetime -- the census of the buffalo in illinois exceed the census of man now in london , and though at the present day not one horn or hoof of they remain in all that region ; and though the cause of this wondrous extermination be the spear of man ; yet the far different nature of the whale - hunt peremptorily forbid so inglorious an end to the leviathan . forty man in one ship hunt the sperm whales for forty - eight month think they have do extremely well , and thank god , if at last they carry home the oil of forty fish . whereas , in the day of the old canadian and indian hunter and trapper of the west , when the far west ( in whose sunset sun still rise ) be a wilderness and a virgin , the same number of moccasined man , for the same number of month , mount on horse instead of sail in ship , would have slay not forty , but forty thousand and more buffalo ; a fact that , if need be , could be statistically state .
nor , consider aright , do it seem any argument in favour of the gradual extinction of the sperm whale , for example , that in former year ( the latter part of the last century , say ) these leviathans , in small pod , be encounter much oftener than at present , and , in consequence , the voyage be not so prolonged , and be also much more remunerative . because , as have be elsewhere notice , those whale , influence by some view to safety , now swim the sea in immense caravan , so that to a large degree the scatter solitary , yoke , and pod , and school of other day be now aggregate into vast but widely separate , unfrequent army . that be all . and equally fallacious seem the conceit , that because the so - call whale - bone whale no long haunt many ground in former year abound with they , hence that specie also be decline . for they be only be drive from promontory to cape ; and if one coast be no long enliven with their jet , then , be sure , some other and remoter strand have be very recently startle by the unfamiliar spectacle .
furthermore : concern these last mention leviathans , they have two firm fortress , which , in all human probability , will for ever remain impregnable . and as upon the invasion of their valley , the frosty swiss have retreat to their mountain ; so , hunt from the savanna and glade of the middle sea , the whale - bone whale can at last resort to their polar citadel , and diving under the ultimate glassy barrier and wall there , come up among icy field and floe ; and in a charmed circle of everlasting december , bid defiance to all pursuit from man .
but as perhaps fifty of these whale - bone whale be harpoon for one cachalot , some philosopher of the forecastle have conclude that this positive havoc have already very seriously diminish their battalion . but though for some time past a number of these whale , not less than 13,000 , have be annually slay on the nor'-w coast by the americans alone ; yet there be consideration which render even this circumstance of little or no account as an oppose argument in this matter .
natural as it be to be somewhat incredulous concern the populousness of the more enormous creature of the globe , yet what shall we say to harto , the historian of goa , when he tell we that at one hunt the king of siam take 4,000 elephant ; that in those region elephant be numerous as drove of cattle in the temperate clime . and there seem no reason to doubt that if these elephant , which have now be hunt for thousand of year , by semiramis , by porus , by hannibal , and by all the successive monarch of the east -- if they still survive there in great number , much more may the great whale outlast all hunting , since he have a pasture to expatiate in , which be precisely twice as large as all asia , both americas , europe and africa , new holland , and all the isles of the sea combine .
moreover : we be to consider , that from the presume great longevity of whale , their probably attain the age of a century and more , therefore at any one period of time , several distinct adult generation must be contemporary . and what that be , we may soon gain some idea of , by imagine all the grave - yard , cemetery , and family vault of creation yield up the live body of all the man , woman , and child who be alive seventy - five year ago ; and add this countless host to the present human population of the globe .
wherefore , for all these thing , we account the whale immortal in his specie , however perishable in his individuality . he swam the sea before the continent break water ; he once swam over the site of the tuileries , and windsor castle , and the kremlin . in noah 's flood he despise noah 's ark ; and if ever the world be to be again flood , like the netherlands , to kill off its rat , then the eternal whale will still survive , and rear upon the topmost crest of the equatorial flood , spout his frothed defiance to the sky .
chapter 106
ahab 's leg .
the precipitating manner in which captain ahab have quit the samuel enderby of london , have not be unattended with some small violence to his own person . he have light with such energy upon a thwart of his boat that his ivory leg have receive a half - splinter shock . and when after gain his own deck , and his own pivot - hole there , he so vehemently wheel round with an urgent command to the steersman ( it be , as ever , something about his not steer inflexibly enough ) ; then , the already shake ivory receive such an additional twist and wrench , that though it still remain entire , and to all appearance lusty , yet ahab do not deem it entirely trustworthy .
and , indeed , it seem small matter for wonder , that for all his pervading , mad recklessness , ahab do at time give careful heed to the condition of that dead bone upon which he partly stand . for it have not be very long prior to the pequod 's sailing from nantucket , that he have be find one night lie prone upon the ground , and insensible ; by some unknown , and seemingly inexplicable , unimaginable casualty , his ivory limb having be so violently displace , that it have stake - wise smitten , and all but pierce his groin ; nor be it without extreme difficulty that the agonizing wound be entirely cure .
nor , at the time , have it fail to enter his monomaniac mind , that all the anguish of that then present suffering be but the direct issue of a former woe ; and he too plainly seem to see , that as the most poisonous reptile of the marsh perpetuate his kind as inevitably as the sweetest songster of the grove ; so , equally with every felicity , all miserable event do naturally beget their like . yea , more than equally , think ahab ; since both the ancestry and posterity of grief go far than the ancestry and posterity of joy . for , not to hint of this : that it be an inference from certain canonic teaching , that while some natural enjoyment here shall have no child bear to they for the other world , but , on the contrary , shall be follow by the joy - childlessness of all hell 's despair ; whereas , some guilty mortal misery shall still fertilely beget to themselves an eternally progressive progeny of grief beyond the grave ; not at all to hint of this , there still seem an inequality in the deep analysis of the thing . for , think ahab , while even the high earthly felicity ever have a certain unsignifying pettiness lurk in they , but , at bottom , all heartwoe , a mystic significance , and , in some man , an archangelic grandeur ; so do their diligent tracing - out not belie the obvious deduction . to trail the genealogy of these high mortal misery , carry we at last among the sourceless primogeniture of the god ; so that , in the face of all the glad , hay - make sun , and soft cymballing , round harvest - moon , we must need give in to this : that the god themselves be not for ever glad . the ineffaceable , sad birth - mark in the brow of man , be but the stamp of sorrow in the signer .
unwittingly here a secret have be divulge , which perhaps might more properly , in set way , have be disclose before . with many other particular concern ahab , always have it remain a mystery to some , why it be , that for a certain period , both before and after the sailing of the pequod , he have hide himself away with such grand - lama - like exclusiveness ; and , for that one interval , seek speechless refuge , as it be , among the marble senate of the dead . captain peleg 's bruited reason for this thing appear by no means adequate ; though , indeed , as touch all ahab 's deep part , every revelation partook more of significant darkness than of explanatory light . but , in the end , it all come out ; this one matter do , at least . that direful mishap be at the bottom of his temporary recluseness . and not only this , but to that ever - contracting , drop circle ashore , who , for any reason , possess the privilege of a less ban approach to he ; to that timid circle the above hint casualty -- remain , as it do , moodily unaccounte for by ahab -- invest itself with terror , not entirely underived from the land of spirit and of wail . so that , through their zeal for he , they have all conspire , so far as in they lay , to muffle up the knowledge of this thing from other ; and hence it be , that not till a considerable interval have elapse , do it transpire upon the pequod 's deck .
but be all this as it may ; let the unseen , ambiguous synod in the air , or the vindictive prince and potentate of fire , have to do or not with earthly ahab , yet , in this present matter of his leg , he take plain practical procedures;--he call the carpenter .
and when that functionary appear before he , he bid he without delay set about make a new leg , and direct the mate to see he supply with all the stud and joist of jaw - ivory ( sperm whale ) which have thus far be accumulate on the voyage , in order that a careful selection of the stout , clearest - grain stuff might be secure . this do , the carpenter receive order to have the leg complete that night ; and to provide all the fitting for it , independent of those pertain to the distrust one in use . moreover , the ship 's forge be order to be hoist out of its temporary idleness in the hold ; and , to accelerate the affair , the blacksmith be command to proceed at once to the forging of whatever iron contrivance might be need .
chapter 107
the carpenter .
seat thyself sultanically among the moon of saturn , and take high abstract man alone ; and he seem a wonder , a grandeur , and a woe . but from the same point , take mankind in mass , and for the most part , they seem a mob of unnecessary duplicate , both contemporary and hereditary . but most humble though he be , and far from furnish an example of the high , humane abstraction ; the pequod 's carpenter be no duplicate ; hence , he now come in person on this stage .
like all sea - go ship carpenter , and more especially those belong to whale vessel , he be , to a certain off - hand , practical extent , alike experience in numerous trade and calling collateral to his own ; the carpenter 's pursuit be the ancient and outbranche trunk of all those numerous handicraft which more or less have to do with wood as an auxiliary material . but , besides the application to he of the generic remark above , this carpenter of the pequod be singularly efficient in those thousand nameless mechanical emergency continually recur in a large ship , upon a three or four year ' voyage , in uncivilized and far - distant sea . for not to speak of his readiness in ordinary duties:--repaire stove boat , sprung spar , reform the shape of clumsy - bladed oar , insert bull 's eye in the deck , or new tree - nail in the side plank , and other miscellaneous matter more directly pertain to his special business ; he be moreover unhesitatingly expert in all manner of conflict aptitude , both useful and capricious .
the one grand stage where he enact all his various part so manifold , be his vice - bench ; a long rude ponderous table furnish with several vice , of different size , and both of iron and of wood . at all time except when whale be alongside , this bench be securely lash athwartship against the rear of the try - work .
a belay pin be find too large to be easily insert into its hole : the carpenter clap it into one of his ever - ready vice , and straightway file it small . a lose land - bird of strange plumage stray on board , and be make a captive : out of clean shave rod of right - whale bone , and cross - beam of sperm whale ivory , the carpenter make a pagoda - look cage for it . an oarsman sprain his wrist : the carpenter concoct a soothe lotion . stubb long for vermillion star to be paint upon the blade of his every oar ; screw each oar in his big vice of wood , the carpenter symmetrically supply the constellation . a sailor take a fancy to wear shark - bone ear - ring : the carpenter drill his ear . another have the toothache : the carpenter out pincer , and clap one hand upon his bench bid he be seat there ; but the poor fellow unmanageably wince under the unconcluded operation ; whirl round the handle of his wooden vice , the carpenter sign he to clap his jaw in that , if he would have he draw the tooth .
thus , this carpenter be prepare at all point , and alike indifferent and without respect in all . teeth he account bit of ivory ; head he deem but top - block ; man themselves he lightly hold for capstan . but while now upon so wide a field thus variously accomplish and with such liveliness of expertness in he , too ; all this would seem to argue some uncommon vivacity of intelligence . but not precisely so . for nothing be this man more remarkable , than for a certain impersonal stolidity as it be ; impersonal , i say ; for it so shade off into the surround infinite of thing , that it seem one with the general stolidity discernible in the whole visible world ; which while pauselessly active in uncounted mode , still eternally hold its peace , and ignore you , though you dig foundation for cathedral . yet be this half - horrible stolidity in he , involve , too , as it appear , an all - ramifying heartlessness;--yet be it oddly dash at time , with an old , crutch - like , antediluvian , wheeze humorousness , not unstreaked now and then with a certain grizzle wittiness ; such as might have serve to pass the time during the midnight watch on the bearded forecastle of noah 's ark . be it that this old carpenter have be a life - long wanderer , whose much roll , to and fro , not only have gather no moss ; but what be more , have rub off whatever small outward clinging might have originally pertain to he ? he be a stript abstract ; an unfractioned integral ; uncompromise as a new - bear babe ; live without premeditate reference to this world or the next . you might almost say , that this strange uncompromisedness in he involve a sort of unintelligence ; for in his numerous trade , he do not seem to work so much by reason or by instinct , or simply because he have be tutor to it , or by any intermixture of all these , even or uneven ; but merely by a kind of deaf and dumb , spontaneous literal process . he be a pure manipulator ; his brain , if he have ever have one , must have early ooze along into the muscle of his finger . he be like one of those unreasoning but still highly useful , multum in parvo , sheffield contrivance , assume the exterior -- though a little swell -- of a common pocket knife ; but contain , not only blade of various size , but also screw - driver , cork - screw , tweezer , awl , pen , ruler , nail - filer , countersinker . so , if his superior want to use the carpenter for a screw - driver , all they have to do be to open that part of he , and the screw be fast : or if for tweezer , take he up by the leg , and there they be .
yet , as previously hint , this omnitoole , open - and - shut carpenter , be , after all , no mere machine of an automaton . if he do not have a common soul in he , he have a subtle something that somehow anomalously do its duty . what that be , whether essence of quicksilver , or a few drop of hartshorn , there be no telling . but there it be ; and there it have abide for now some sixty year or more . and this it be , this same unaccountable , cunning life - principle in he ; this it be , that keep he a great part of the time soliloquize ; but only like an unreasone wheel , which also hummingly soliloquize ; or rather , his body be a sentry - box and this soliloquizer on guard there , and talk all the time to keep himself awake .
chapter 108
ahab and the carpenter .
the deck -- first night watch .
( carpenter stand before his vice - bench , and by the light of two lanterns busily file the ivory joist for the leg , which joist be firmly fix in the vice . slabs of ivory , leather straps , pads , screws , and various tools of all sort lie about the bench . forward , the red flame of the forge be see , where the blacksmith be at work . )
drat the file , and drat the bone ! that be hard which should be soft , and that be soft which should be hard . so we go , who file old jaw and shinbone . let us try another . aye , now , this work well ( sneezes ) . halloa , this bone dust be ( sneezes)--why it be ( sneezes)--yes it be ( sneezes)--bless my soul , it will not let i speak ! this be what an old fellow get now for work in dead lumber . see a live tree , and you do not get this dust ; amputate a live bone , and you do not get it ( sneezes ) . come , come , you old smut , there , bear a hand , and let us have that ferule and buckle - screw ; i will be ready for they presently . lucky now ( sneezes ) there be no knee - joint to make ; that might puzzle a little ; but a mere shinbone -- why it be easy as make hop - pole ; only i should like to put a good finish on . time , time ; if i but only have the time , i could turn he out as neat a leg now as ever ( sneezes ) scrap to a lady in a parlor . those buckskin leg and calf of leg i have see in shop window would not compare at all . they soak water , they do ; and of course get rheumatic , and have to be doctor ( sneezes ) with wash and lotion , just like live leg . there ; before i see it off , now , i must call his old mogulship , and see whether the length will be all right ; too short , if anything , i guess . ha ! that be the heel ; we be in luck ; here he come , or it be somebody else , that be certain .
ahab ( advancing )
( during the ensuing scene , the carpenter continue sneeze at times )
well , manmaker !
just in time , sir . if the captain please , i will now mark the length . let i measure , sir .
measure for a leg ! good . well , it be not the first time . about it ! there ; keep thy finger on it . this be a cogent vice thou hast here , carpenter ; let i feel its grip once . so , so ; it do pinch some .
oh , sir , it will break bone -- beware , beware !
no fear ; i like a good grip ; i like to feel something in this slippery world that can hold , man . what be prometheus about there?--the blacksmith , i mean -- what be he about ?
he must be forge the buckle - screw , sir , now .
right . it be a partnership ; he supply the muscle part . he make a fierce red flame there !
aye , sir ; he must have the white heat for this kind of fine work .
um - m. so he must . i do deem it now a most meaning thing , that that old greek , prometheus , who make man , they say , should have be a blacksmith , and animate they with fire ; for what be make in fire must properly belong to fire ; and so hell 's probable . how the soot fly ! this must be the remainder the greek make the africans of . carpenter , when he be through with that buckle , tell he to forge a pair of steel shoulder - blade ; there be a pedlar aboard with a crush pack .
sir ?
hold ; while prometheus be about it , i will order a complete man after a desirable pattern . imprimis , fifty foot high in his sock ; then , chest model after the thames tunnel ; then , leg with root to them , to stay in one place ; then , arm three foot through the wrist ; no heart at all , brass forehead , and about a quarter of an acre of fine brain ; and let i see -- shall i order eye to see outward ? no , but put a sky - light on top of his head to illuminate inward . there , take the order , and away .
now , what be he speak about , and who be he speak to , i should like to know ? shall i keep stand here ? ( aside ) .
' tis but indifferent architecture to make a blind dome ; here be one . no , no , no ; i must have a lantern .
ho , ho ! that be it , hey ? here be two , sir ; one will serve my turn .
what art thou thrust that thief - catcher into my face for , man ? thrusted light be bad than present pistol .
i think , sir , that you speak to carpenter .
carpenter ? why that' -- but no;--a very tidy , and , i may say , an extremely gentlemanlike sort of business thou art in here , carpenter;--or would'st thou rather work in clay ?
sir?--clay ? clay , sir ? that be mud ; we leave clay to ditcher , sir .
the fellow 's impious ! what art thou sneeze about ?
bone be rather dusty , sir .
take the hint , then ; and when thou art dead , never bury thyself under live people 's nose .
sir?--oh ! ah!--i guess so;--yes -- dear !
look ye , carpenter , i dare say thou call thyself a right good workmanlike workman , eh ? well , then , will it speak thoroughly well for thy work , if , when i come to mount this leg thou makest , i shall nevertheless feel another leg in the same identical place with it ; that is , carpenter , my old lose leg ; the flesh and blood one , i mean . canst thou not drive that old adam away ?
truly , sir , i begin to understand somewhat now . yes , i have hear something curious on that score , sir ; how that a dismasted man never entirely lose the feeling of his old spar , but it will be still prick he at time . may i humbly ask if it be really so , sir ?
it be , man . look , put thy live leg here in the place where mine once be ; so , now , here be only one distinct leg to the eye , yet two to the soul . where thou feel tingle life ; there , exactly there , there to a hair , do i. is't a riddle ?
i should humbly call it a poser , sir .
hist , then . how dost thou know that some entire , living , think thing may not be invisibly and uninterpenetratingly stand precisely where thou now standest ; aye , and stand there in thy spite ? in thy most solitary hour , then , dost thou not fear eavesdropper ? hold , do not speak ! and if i still feel the smart of my crushed leg , though it be now so long dissolve ; then , why mayst not thou , carpenter , feel the fiery pain of hell for ever , and without a body ? hah !
good lord ! truly , sir , if it come to that , i must calculate over again ; i think i do not carry a small figure , sir .
look ye , pudding - head should never grant premises.--how long before the leg be do ?
perhaps an hour , sir .
bungle away at it then , and bring it to i ( turns to go ) . oh , life ! here i be , proud as greek god , and yet stand debtor to this blockhead for a bone to stand on ! cursed be that mortal inter - indebtedness which will not do away with ledger . i would be free as air ; and i be down in the whole world 's book . i be so rich , i could have give bid for bid with the wealthy praetorian at the auction of the roman empire ( which be the world 's ) ; and yet i owe for the flesh in the tongue i brag with . by heaven ! i will get a crucible , and into it , and dissolve myself down to one small , compendious vertebra . so .
carpenter ( resume his work ) .
well , well , well ! stubb know he good of all , and stubb always say he be queer ; say nothing but that one sufficient little word queer ; he be queer , say stubb ; he be queer -- queer , queer ; and keep din it into mr. starbuck all the time -- queer -- sir -- queer , queer , very queer . and here be his leg ! yes , now that i think of it , here be his bedfellow ! have a stick of whale 's jaw - bone for a wife ! and this be his leg ; he will stand on this . what be that now about one leg stand in three place , and all three place stand in one hell -- how be that ? oh ! i do not wonder he look so scornful at i ! i be a sort of strange - thoughte sometimes , they say ; but that be only haphazard - like . then , a short , little old body like i , should never undertake to wade out into deep water with tall , heron - build captain ; the water chuck you under the chin pretty quick , and there be a great cry for life - boat . and here be the heron 's leg ! long and slim , sure enough ! now , for most folk one pair of leg last a lifetime , and that must be because they use they mercifully , as a tender - hearted old lady use her roly - poly old coach - horse . but ahab ; oh he be a hard driver . look , drive one leg to death , and spavine the other for life , and now wear out bone leg by the cord . halloa , there , you smut ! bear a hand there with those screw , and let us finish it before the resurrection fellow come a - calling with his horn for all leg , true or false , as brewery - man go round collect old beer barrel , to fill them up again . what a leg this be ! it look like a real live leg , file down to nothing but the core ; he will be stand on this to - morrow ; he will be take altitude on it . halloa ! i almost forget the little oval slate , smoothed ivory , where he figure up the latitude . so , so ; chisel , file , and sand - paper , now !
chapter 109
ahab and starbuck in the cabin .
accord to usage they be pump the ship next morning ; and lo ! no inconsiderable oil come up with the water ; the cask below must have spring a bad leak . much concern be show ; and starbuck go down into the cabin to report this unfavourable affair . *
* in sperm - whaleman with any considerable quantity of oil on board , it be a regular semiweekly duty to conduct a hose into the hold , and drench the cask with sea - water ; which afterwards , at vary interval , be remove by the ship 's pump . hereby the cask be seek to be keep damply tight ; while by the change character of the withdraw water , the mariner readily detect any serious leakage in the precious cargo .
now , from the south and west the pequod be draw nigh to formosa and the bashee isles , between which lie one of the tropical outlet from the china water into the pacific . and so starbuck find ahab with a general chart of the oriental archipelago spread before he ; and another separate one represent the long eastern coast of the japanese island -- niphon , matsmai , and sikoke . with his snow - white new ivory leg brace against the screw leg of his table , and with a long pruning - hook of a jack - knife in his hand , the wondrous old man , with his back to the gangway door , be wrinkle his brow , and trace his old course again .
" who be there ? " hear the footstep at the door , but not turn round to it . " on deck ! begone ! "
" captain ahab mistake ; it be i. the oil in the hold be leak , sir . we must up burtons and break out . "
" up burton and break out ? now that we be near japan ; heave - to here for a week to tinker a parcel of old hoop ? "
" either do that , sir , or waste in one day more oil than we may make good in a year . what we come twenty thousand mile to get be worth saving , sir . "
" so it be , so it be ; if we get it . "
" i be speak of the oil in the hold , sir . "
" and i be not speak or think of that at all . begone ! let it leak ! i be all aleak myself . aye ! leak in leak ! not only full of leaky cask , but those leaky cask be in a leaky ship ; and that be a far bad plight than the pequod 's , man . yet i do not stop to plug my leak ; for who can find it in the deep - load hull ; or how hope to plug it , even if find , in this life 's howl gale ? starbuck ! i will not have the burtons hoist . "
" what will the owner say , sir ? "
" let the owner stand on nantucket beach and outyell the typhoons . what care ahab ? owner , owner ? thou art always prate to i , starbuck , about those miserly owner , as if the owner be my conscience . but look ye , the only real owner of anything be its commander ; and hark ye , my conscience be in this ship 's keel.--on deck ! "
" captain ahab , " say the redden mate , move far into the cabin , with a daring so strangely respectful and cautious that it almost seem not only every way seek to avoid the slight outward manifestation of itself , but within also seem more than half distrustful of itself ; " a well man than i might well pass over in thee what he would quickly enough resent in a young man ; aye , and in a happy , captain ahab . "
" devil ! dost thou then so much as dare to critically think of me?--on deck ! "
" nay , sir , not yet ; i do entreat . and i do dare , sir -- to be forbear ! shall we not understand each other well than hitherto , captain ahab ? "
ahab seize a loaded musket from the rack ( form part of most south - sea - man 's cabin furniture ) , and point it towards starbuck , exclaim : " there be one god that be lord over the earth , and one captain that be lord over the pequod.--on deck ! "
for an instant in the flash eye of the mate , and his fiery cheek , you would have almost think that he have really receive the blaze of the levelled tube . but , master his emotion , he half calmly rise , and as he quit the cabin , pause for an instant and say : " thou hast outrage , not insult i , sir ; but for that i ask thee not to beware of starbuck ; thou wouldst but laugh ; but let ahab beware of ahab ; beware of thyself , old man . "
" he wax brave , but nevertheless obey ; most careful bravery that ! " murmur ahab , as starbuck disappear . " what be that he say -- ahab beware of ahab -- there be something there ! " then unconsciously use the musket for a staff , with an iron brow he pace to and fro in the little cabin ; but presently the thick plait of his forehead relaxed , and return the gun to the rack , he go to the deck .
" thou art but too good a fellow , starbuck , " he say lowly to the mate ; then raise his voice to the crew : " furl the t'gallant - sail , and close - reef the top - sail , fore and aft ; back the main - yard ; up burton , and break out in the main - hold . "
it be perhaps vain to surmise exactly why it be , that as respect starbuck , ahab thus act . it may have be a flash of honesty in he ; or mere prudential policy which , under the circumstance , imperiously forbid the slight symptom of open disaffection , however transient , in the important chief officer of his ship . however it be , his order be execute ; and the burtons be hoist .
chapter 110
queequeg in his coffin .
upon search , it be find that the cask last strike into the hold be perfectly sound , and that the leak must be far off . so , it be calm weather , they break out deeply and deep , disturb the slumber of the huge ground - tier butt ; and from that black midnight send those gigantic mole into the daylight above . so deep do they go ; and so ancient , and corrode , and weedy the aspect of the lowermost puncheon , that you almost look next for some mouldy corner - stone cask contain coin of captain noah , with copy of the post placard , vainly warn the infatuated old world from the flood . tierce after tierce , too , of water , and bread , and beef , and shook of stave , and iron bundle of hoop , be hoist out , till at last the pile deck be hard to get about ; and the hollow hull echo under foot , as if you be treading over empty catacomb , and reel and roll in the sea like an air - freight demijohn . top - heavy be the ship as a dinnerless student with all aristotle in his head . well be it that the typhoons do not visit they then .
now , at this time it be that my poor pagan companion , and fast bosom - friend , queequeg , be seize with a fever , which bring he nigh to his endless end .
be it say , that in this vocation of whaling , sinecure be unknown ; dignity and danger go hand in hand ; till you get to be captain , the high you rise the hard you toil . so with poor queequeg , who , as harpooneer , must not only face all the rage of the live whale , but -- as we have elsewhere see -- mount his dead back in a rolling sea ; and finally descend into the gloom of the hold , and bitterly sweat all day in that subterraneous confinement , resolutely manhandle the clumsy cask and see to their stowage . to be short , among whaleman , the harpooneer be the holder , so call .
poor queequeg ! when the ship be about half disembowel , you should have stoop over the hatchway , and peer down upon he there ; where , strip to his woollen drawer , the tattooed savage be crawl about amid that dampness and slime , like a green spot lizard at the bottom of a well . and a well , or an ice - house , it somehow prove to he , poor pagan ; where , strange to say , for all the heat of his sweating , he catch a terrible chill which lapse into a fever ; and at last , after some day ' suffering , lay he in his hammock , close to the very sill of the door of death . how he waste and waste away in those few long - linger day , till there seem but little leave of he but his frame and tattooing . but as all else in he thin , and his cheek - bone grow sharp , his eye , nevertheless , seem grow full and fuller ; they become of a strange softness of lustre ; and mildly but deeply look out at you there from his sickness , a wondrous testimony to that immortal health in he which could not die , or be weaken . and like circle on the water , which , as they grow fainter , expand ; so his eye seem round and round , like the ring of eternity . an awe that can not be name would steal over you as you sit by the side of this wan savage , and see as strange thing in his face , as any beheld who be bystander when zoroaster die . for whatever be truly wondrous and fearful in man , never yet be put into word or book . and the drawing near of death , which alike level all , alike impress all with a last revelation , which only an author from the dead could adequately tell . so that -- let we say it again -- no die chaldee or greek have high and holy thought than those , whose mysterious shade you see creep over the face of poor queequeg , as he quietly lie in his sway hammock , and the roll sea seem gently rock he to his final rest , and the ocean 's invisible flood - tide lift he higher and high towards his destine heaven .
not a man of the crew but give he up ; and , as for queequeg himself , what he think of his case be forcibly show by a curious favour he ask . he call one to he in the grey morning watch , when the day be just break , and take his hand , say that while in nantucket he have chance to see certain little canoe of dark wood , like the rich war - wood of his native isle ; and upon inquiry , he have learn that all whaleman who die in nantucket , be lay in those same dark canoe , and that the fancy of be so laid have much please he ; for it be not unlike the custom of his own race , who , after embalm a dead warrior , stretch he out in his canoe , and so leave he to be float away to the starry archipelago ; for not only do they believe that the star be isle , but that far beyond all visible horizon , their own mild , uncontinented sea , interflow with the blue heaven ; and so form the white breaker of the milky way . he add , that he shudder at the thought of be bury in his hammock , accord to the usual sea - custom , toss like something vile to the death - devour shark . no : he desire a canoe like those of nantucket , all the more congenial to he , be a whaleman , that like a whale - boat these coffin - canoe be without a keel ; though that involved but uncertain steering , and much lee - way adown the dim age .
now , when this strange circumstance be make known aft , the carpenter be at once command to do queequeg 's bidding , whatever it might include . there be some heathenish , coffin - colour old lumber aboard , which , upon a long previous voyage , have be cut from the aboriginal grove of the lackaday island , and from these dark plank the coffin be recommend to be make . no soon be the carpenter apprise of the order , than take his rule , he forthwith with all the indifferent promptitude of his character , proceed into the forecastle and take queequeg 's measure with great accuracy , regularly chalk queequeg 's person as he shift the rule .
" ah ! poor fellow ! he will have to die now , " ejaculate the long island sailor .
go to his vice - bench , the carpenter for convenience sake and general reference , now transferringly measure on it the exact length the coffin be to be , and then make the transfer permanent by cut two notch at its extremity . this do , he marshal the plank and his tool , and to work .
when the last nail be drive , and the lid duly plan and fit , he lightly shoulder the coffin and go forward with it , inquire whether they be ready for it yet in that direction .
overhear the indignant but half - humorous cry with which the people on deck begin to drive the coffin away , queequeg , to every one 's consternation , command that the thing should be instantly bring to he , nor be there any deny he ; see that , of all mortal , some die man be the most tyrannical ; and certainly , since they will shortly trouble we so little for evermore , the poor fellow ought to be indulge .
lean over in his hammock , queequeg long regard the coffin with an attentive eye . he then call for his harpoon , have the wooden stock draw from it , and then have the iron part place in the coffin along with one of the paddle of his boat . all by his own request , also , biscuit be then range round the side within : a flask of fresh water be place at the head , and a small bag of woody earth scrap up in the hold at the foot ; and a piece of sail - cloth being roll up for a pillow , queequeg now entreat to be lift into his final bed , that he might make trial of its comfort , if any it have . he lie without move a few minute , then tell one to go to his bag and bring out his little god , yojo . then cross his arm on his breast with yojo between , he call for the coffin lid ( hatch he call it ) to be place over he . the head part turn over with a leather hinge , and there lie queequeg in his coffin with little but his composed countenance in view . " rarmai " ( it will do ; it be easy ) , he murmur at last , and sign to be replace in his hammock .
but ere this be do , pip , who have be slily hover near by all this while , draw nigh to he where he lay , and with soft sobbing , take he by the hand ; in the other , hold his tambourine .
" poor rover ! will ye never have do with all this weary roving ? where go ye now ? but if the current carry ye to those sweet antilles where the beach be only beat with water - lily , will ye do one little errand for i ? seek out one pip , who be now be miss long : i think he be in those far antilles . if ye find he , then comfort he ; for he must be very sad ; for look ! he be leave his tambourine behind;--i find it . rig - a - dig , dig , dig ! now , queequeg , die ; and i will beat ye your die march . "
" i have hear , " murmur starbuck , gaze down the scuttle , " that in violent fever , man , all ignorance , have talk in ancient tongue ; and that when the mystery be probe , it turn out always that in their wholly forget childhood those ancient tongue have be really speak in their hearing by some lofty scholar . so , to my fond faith , poor pip , in this strange sweetness of his lunacy , bring heavenly voucher of all our heavenly home . where learn he that , but there?--hark ! he speak again : but more wildly now . "
" form two and two ! let us make a general of he ! ho , where be his harpoon ? lay it across here.--rig - a - dig , dig , dig ! huzza ! oh for a game cock now to sit upon his head and crow ! queequeg die game!--mind ye that ; queequeg dies game!--take ye good heed of that ; queequeg die game ! i say ; game , game , game ! but base little pip , he die a coward ; die all a'shiver;--out upon pip ! hark ye ; if ye find pip , tell all the antilles he be a runaway ; a coward , a coward , a coward ! tell they he jump from a whale - boat ! i would never beat my tambourine over base pip , and hail he general , if he be once more die here . no , no ! shame upon all coward -- shame upon they ! let them go drown like pip , that jump from a whale - boat . shame ! shame ! "
during all this , queequeg lie with closed eye , as if in a dream . pip be lead away , and the sick man be replace in his hammock .
but now that he have apparently make every preparation for death ; now that his coffin be prove a good fit , queequeg suddenly rally ; soon there seem no need of the carpenter 's box : and thereupon , when some express their delighted surprise , he , in substance , say , that the cause of his sudden convalescence be this;--at a critical moment , he have just recall a little duty ashore , which he be leave undo ; and therefore have change his mind about die : he could not die yet , he aver . they ask he , then , whether to live or die be a matter of his own sovereign will and pleasure . he answer , certainly . in a word , it be queequeg 's conceit , that if a man make up his mind to live , mere sickness could not kill he : nothing but a whale , or a gale , or some violent , ungovernable , unintelligent destroyer of that sort .
now , there be this noteworthy difference between savage and civilized ; that while a sick , civilized man may be six month convalesce , generally speak , a sick savage be almost half - well again in a day . so , in good time my queequeg gain strength ; and at length after sit on the windlass for a few indolent day ( but eat with a vigorous appetite ) he suddenly leap to his foot , throw out his arm and leg , give himself a good stretching , yawn a little bit , and then spring into the head of his hoist boat , and poise a harpoon , pronounce himself fit for a fight .
with a wild whimsiness , he now use his coffin for a sea - chest ; and empty into it his canvas bag of clothe , set they in order there . many spare hour he spend , in carve the lid with all manner of grotesque figure and drawing ; and it seem that hereby he be strive , in his rude way , to copy part of the twisted tattooing on his body . and this tattooing have be the work of a depart prophet and seer of his island , who , by those hieroglyphic mark , have write out on his body a complete theory of the heaven and the earth , and a mystical treatise on the art of attain truth ; so that queequeg in his own proper person be a riddle to unfold ; a wondrous work in one volume ; but whose mystery not even himself could read , though his own live heart beat against they ; and these mystery be therefore destine in the end to moulder away with the live parchment whereon they be inscribe , and so be unsolved to the last . and this think it must have be which suggest to ahab that wild exclamation of his , when one morning turn away from survey poor queequeg--"oh , devilish tantalization of the god ! "
chapter 111
the pacific .
when glide by the bashee isle we emerge at last upon the great south sea ; be it not for other thing , i could have greet my dear pacific with uncounted thank , for now the long supplication of my youth be answer ; that serene ocean roll eastward from i a thousand league of blue .
there be , one know not what sweet mystery about this sea , whose gently awful stirring seem to speak of some hidden soul beneath ; like those fabled undulation of the ephesian sod over the bury evangelist st. john . and meet it be , that over these sea - pasture , wide - roll watery prairie and potters ' fields of all four continent , the wave should rise and fall , and ebb and flow unceasingly ; for here , million of mixed shade and shadow , drown dream , somnambulism , revery ; all that we call life and soul , lie dreaming , dream , still ; toss like slumberer in their bed ; the ever - roll wave but make so by their restlessness .
to any meditative magian rover , this serene pacific , once beheld , must ever after be the sea of his adoption . it roll the midmost water of the world , the indian ocean and atlantic be but its arm . the same wave wash the mole of the new - build californian town , but yesterday plant by the recent race of man , and lave the fade but still gorgeous skirt of asiatic land , old than abraham ; while all between float milky - way of coral isle , and low - lie , endless , unknown archipelago , and impenetrable japan . thus this mysterious , divine pacific zone the world 's whole bulk about ; make all coast one bay to it ; seem the tide - beat heart of earth . lift by those eternal swell , you need must own the seductive god , bow your head to pan .
but few thought of pan stir ahab 's brain , as stand like an iron statue at his accustomed place beside the mizen rigging , with one nostril he unthinkingly snuff the sugary musk from the bashee isle ( in whose sweet wood mild lover must be walk ) , and with the other consciously inhale the salt breath of the new find sea ; that sea in which the hat white whale must even then be swim . launch at length upon these almost final water , and glide towards the japanese cruising - ground , the old man 's purpose intensify itself . his firm lip meet like the lip of a vice ; the delta of his forehead 's vein swell like overladen brook ; in his very sleep , his ringing cry run through the vaulted hull , " stern all ! the white whale spout thick blood ! "
chapter 112
the blacksmith .
avail himself of the mild , summer - cool weather that now reign in these latitude , and in preparation for the peculiarly active pursuit shortly to be anticipate , perth , the begrimed , blister old blacksmith , have not remove his portable forge to the hold again , after conclude his contributory work for ahab 's leg , but still retain it on deck , fast lash to ringbolt by the foremast ; be now almost incessantly invoke by the headsman , and harpooneer , and bowsman to do some little job for they ; altering , or repair , or new shape their various weapon and boat furniture . often he would be surround by an eager circle , all wait to be serve ; hold boat - spade , pike - head , harpoon , and lance , and jealously watch his every sooty movement , as he toil . nevertheless , this old man 's be a patient hammer wield by a patient arm . no murmur , no impatience , no petulance do come from he . silent , slow , and solemn ; bow over still far his chronically break back , he toil away , as if toil be life itself , and the heavy beating of his hammer the heavy beating of his heart . and so it was.--most miserable !
a peculiar walk in this old man , a certain slight but painful appear yawing in his gait , have at an early period of the voyage excite the curiosity of the mariner . and to the importunity of their persist questioning he have finally give in ; and so it come to pass that every one now know the shameful story of his wretched fate .
belate , and not innocently , one bitter winter 's midnight , on the road run between two country town , the blacksmith half - stupidly feel the deadly numbness steal over he , and seek refuge in a lean , dilapidated barn . the issue be , the loss of the extremity of both foot . out of this revelation , part by part , at last come out the four act of the gladness , and the one long , and as yet uncatastrophied fifth act of the grief of his life 's drama .
he be an old man , who , at the age of nearly sixty , have postponedly encounter that thing in sorrow 's technical call ruin . he have be an artisan of famed excellence , and with plenty to do ; own a house and garden ; embrace a youthful , daughter - like , love wife , and three blithe , ruddy child ; every sunday go to a cheerful - look church , plant in a grove . but one night , under cover of darkness , and far conceal in a most cunning disguisement , a desperate burglar slide into his happy home , and rob they all of everything . and darker yet to tell , the blacksmith himself do ignorantly conduct this burglar into his family 's heart . it be the bottle conjuror ! upon the opening of that fatal cork , forth fly the fiend , and shrivel up his home . now , for prudent , most wise , and economic reason , the blacksmith 's shop be in the basement of his dwelling , but with a separate entrance to it ; so that always have the young and love healthy wife listen with no unhappy nervousness , but with vigorous pleasure , to the stout ring of her young - armed old husband 's hammer ; whose reverberation , muffle by pass through the floor and wall , come up to she , not unsweetly , in her nursery ; and so , to stout labor 's iron lullaby , the blacksmith 's infant be rock to slumber .
oh , woe on woe ! oh , death , why canst thou not sometimes be timely ? hadst thou take this old blacksmith to thyself ere his full ruin come upon he , then have the young widow have a delicious grief , and her orphan a truly venerable , legendary sire to dream of in their after year ; and all of they a care - kill competency . but death pluck down some virtuous eld brother , on whose whistle daily toil solely hang the responsibility of some other family , and leave the bad than useless old man stand , till the hideous rot of life should make he easy to harvest .
why tell the whole ? the blow of the basement hammer every day grow more and more between ; and each blow every day grow fainter than the last ; the wife sit freeze at the window , with tearless eye , glitteringly gaze into the weeping face of her child ; the bellow fall ; the forge choke up with cinder ; the house be sell ; the mother dive down into the long church - yard grass ; her child twice follow her thither ; and the houseless , familyless old man stagger off a vagabond in crape ; his every woe unreverence ; his grey head a scorn to flaxen curl !
death seem the only desirable sequel for a career like this ; but death be only a launching into the region of the strange untried ; it be but the first salutation to the possibility of the immense remote , the wild , the watery , the unshored ; therefore , to the death - long eye of such man , who still have leave in they some interior compunction against suicide , do the all - contribute and all - receptive ocean alluringly spread forth his whole plain of unimaginable , take terror , and wonderful , new - life adventure ; and from the heart of infinite pacifics , the thousand mermaid sing to them--"come hither , break - hearted ; here be another life without the guilt of intermediate death ; here be wonder supernatural , without die for they . come hither ! bury thyself in a life which , to your now equally abhor and abhorring , landed world , be more oblivious than death . come hither ! put up thy gravestone , too , within the churchyard , and come hither , till we marry thee ! "
hearken to these voice , east and west , by early sunrise , and by fall of eve , the blacksmith 's soul respond , aye , i come ! and so perth go a - whaling .
chapter 113
the forge .
with matted beard , and swathe in a bristling shark - skin apron , about mid - day , perth be stand between his forge and anvil , the latter place upon an iron - wood log , with one hand hold a pike - head in the coal , and with the other at his forge 's lung , when captain ahab come along , carry in his hand a small rusty - look leathern bag . while yet a little distance from the forge , moody ahab pause ; till at last , perth , withdraw his iron from the fire , begin hammer it upon the anvil -- the red mass send off the spark in thick hover flight , some of which fly close to ahab .
" be these thy mother carey 's chicken , perth ? they be always fly in thy wake ; bird of good oman , too , but not to all;--look here , they burn ; but thou -- thou liv'st among they without a scorch . "
" because i be scorch all over , captain ahab , " answer perth , rest for a moment on his hammer ; " i be past scorch ; not easily can'st thou scorch a scar . "
" well , well ; no more . thy shrunk voice sound too calmly , sanely woeful to i . in no paradise myself , i be impatient of all misery in other that be not mad . thou should'st go mad , blacksmith ; say , why dost thou not go mad ? how can'st thou endure without be mad ? do the heaven yet hate thee , that thou can'st not go mad?--what wert thou make there ? "
" weld an old pike - head , sir ; there be seam and dent in it . "
" and can'st thou make it all smooth again , blacksmith , after such hard usage as it have ? "
" i think so , sir . "
" and i suppose thou can'st smoothe almost any seam and dent ; never mind how hard the metal , blacksmith ? "
" aye , sir , i think i can ; all seam and dent but one . "
" look ye here , then , " cry ahab , passionately advance , and lean with both hand on perth 's shoulder ; " look ye here -- here -- can ye smoothe out a seam like this , blacksmith , " sweep one hand across his ribbed brow ; " if thou could'st , blacksmith , glad enough would i lay my head upon thy anvil , and feel thy heavy hammer between my eye . answer ! can'st thou smoothe this seam ? "
" oh ! that be the one , sir ! say i not all seam and dent but one ? "
" aye , blacksmith , it be the one ; aye , man , it be unsmoothable ; for though thou only see'st it here in my flesh , it have work down into the bone of my skull -- that be all wrinkle ! but , away with child 's play ; no more gaff and pike to - day . look ye here ! " jingle the leathern bag , as if it be full of gold coin . " i , too , want a harpoon make ; one that a thousand yoke of fiend could not part , perth ; something that will stick in a whale like his own fin - bone . there be the stuff , " fling the pouch upon the anvil . " look ye , blacksmith , these be the gather nail - stubbs of the steel shoe of race horse . "
" horse - shoe stubbs , sir ? why , captain ahab , thou hast here , then , the good and stubborn stuff we blacksmith ever work . "
" i know it , old man ; these stubbs will weld together like glue from the melted bone of murderer . quick ! forge i the harpoon . and forge i first , twelve rod for its shank ; then wind , and twist , and hammer these twelve together like the yarn and strand of a tow - line . quick ! i will blow the fire . "
when at last the twelve rod be make , ahab try they , one by one , by spiral they , with his own hand , round a long , heavy iron bolt . " a flaw ! " reject the last one . " work that over again , perth . "
this do , perth be about to begin weld the twelve into one , when ahab stay his hand , and say he would weld his own iron . as , then , with regular , gasp hem , he hammer on the anvil , perth pass to he the glowing rod , one after the other , and the hard press forge shoot up its intense straight flame , the parsee pass silently , and bow over his head towards the fire , seem invoke some curse or some blessing on the toil . but , as ahab look up , he slide aside .
" what be that bunch of lucifer dodge about there for ? " mutter stubb , look on from the forecastle . " that parsee smell fire like a fusee ; and smell of it himself , like a hot musket 's powder - pan . "
at last the shank , in one complete rod , receive its final heat ; and as perth , to temper it , plunge it all hiss into the cask of water near by , the scald steam shoot up into ahab 's bent face .
" would'st thou brand i , perth ? " wince for a moment with the pain ; " have i be but forge my own branding - iron , then ? "
" pray god , not that ; yet i fear something , captain ahab . be not this harpoon for the white whale ? "
" for the white fiend ! but now for the barb ; thou must make they thyself , man . here be my razor -- the good of steel ; here , and make the barb sharp as the needle - sleet of the icy sea . "
for a moment , the old blacksmith eye the razor as though he would fain not use they .
" take they , man , i have no need for they ; for i now neither shave , sup , nor pray till -- but here -- to work ! "
fashion at last into an arrowy shape , and weld by perth to the shank , the steel soon point the end of the iron ; and as the blacksmith be about give the barb their final heat , prior to temper they , he cry to ahab to place the water - cask near .
" no , no -- no water for that ; i want it of the true death - temper . ahoy , there ! tashtego , queequeg , daggoo ! what say ye , pagan ! will ye give i as much blood as will cover this barb ? " hold it high up . a cluster of dark nod reply , yes . three puncture be make in the heathen flesh , and the white whale 's barb be then temper .
" ego non baptizo te in nomine patris , se in nomine diaboli ! " deliriously howl ahab , as the malignant iron scorchingly devour the baptismal blood .
now , muster the spare pole from below , and select one of hickory , with the bark still invest it , ahab fit the end to the socket of the iron . a coil of new tow - line be then unwound , and some fathom of it take to the windlass , and stretch to a great tension . press his foot upon it , till the rope hum like a harp - string , then eagerly bend over it , and see no stranding , ahab exclaim , " good ! and now for the seizing . "
at one extremity the rope be unstrande , and the separate spread yarn be all braid and weave round the socket of the harpoon ; the pole be then drive hard up into the socket ; from the low end the rope be trace half - way along the pole 's length , and firmly secured so , with intertwisting of twine . this do , pole , iron , and rope -- like the three fates -- remain inseparable , and ahab moodily stalk away with the weapon ; the sound of his ivory leg , and the sound of the hickory pole , both hollowly ring along every plank . but ere he enter his cabin , light , unnatural , half - banter , yet most piteous sound be hear . oh , pip ! thy wretched laugh , thy idle but unreste eye ; all thy strange mummery not unmeaningly blend with the black tragedy of the melancholy ship , and mock it !
chapter 114
the gilder .
penetrate far and far into the heart of the japanese cruising ground , the pequod be soon all astir in the fishery . often , in mild , pleasant weather , for twelve , fifteen , eighteen , and twenty hour on the stretch , they be engage in the boat , steadily pull , or sailing , or paddle after the whale , or for an interlude of sixty or seventy minute calmly await their uprising ; though with but small success for their pain .
at such time , under an abated sun ; afloat all day upon smooth , slow heaving swell ; seat in his boat , light as a birch canoe ; and so sociably mix with the soft wave themselves , that like hearth - stone cat they purr against the gunwale ; these be the time of dreamy quietude , when behold the tranquil beauty and brilliancy of the ocean 's skin , one forget the tiger heart that pant beneath it ; and would not willingly remember , that this velvet paw but conceal a remorseless fang .
these be the time , when in his whale - boat the rover softly feel a certain filial , confident , land - like feeling towards the sea ; that he regard it as so much flowery earth ; and the distant ship reveal only the top of her mast , seem struggle forward , not through high rolling wave , but through the tall grass of a rolling prairie : as when the western emigrant ' horse only show their erect ear , while their hide body widely wade through the amazing verdure .
the long - draw virgin vale ; the mild blue hill - side ; as over these there steal the hush , the hum ; you almost swear that play - weary child lie sleep in these solitude , in some glad may - time , when the flower of the wood be pluck . and all this mix with your most mystic mood ; so that fact and fancy , half - way meeting , interpenetrate , and form one seamless whole .
nor do such soothing scene , however temporary , fail of at least as temporary an effect on ahab . but if these secret golden key do seem to open in he his own secret golden treasury , yet do his breath upon they prove but tarnish .
oh , grassy glade ! oh , ever vernal endless landscape in the soul ; in ye,--though long parch by the dead drought of the earthy life,--in ye , man yet may roll , like young horse in new morning clover ; and for some few fleeting moment , feel the cool dew of the life immortal on they . would to god these blessed calm would last . but the mingled , mingle thread of life be weave by warp and woof : calm cross by storm , a storm for every calm . there be no steady unretracing progress in this life ; we do not advance through fix gradation , and at the last one pause:--through infancy 's unconscious spell , boyhood 's thoughtless faith , adolescence ' doubt ( the common doom ) , then scepticism , then disbelief , rest at last in manhood 's ponder repose of if . but once go through , we trace the round again ; and be infant , boy , and man , and ifs eternally . where lie the final harbor , whence we unmoor no more ? in what rapt ether sail the world , of which the weariest will never weary ? where be the foundling 's father hide ? our soul be like those orphan whose unwedded mother die in bear they : the secret of our paternity lie in their grave , and we must there to learn it .
and that same day , too , gaze far down from his boat 's side into that same golden sea , starbuck lowly murmured:--
" loveliness unfathomable , as ever lover see in his young bride 's eye!--tell i not of thy tooth - tiere shark , and thy kidnapping cannibal way . let faith oust fact ; let fancy oust memory ; i look deep down and do believe . "
and stubb , fish - like , with sparkle scale , leap up in that same golden light:--
" i be stubb , and stubb have his history ; but here stubb take oath that he have always be jolly ! "
chapter 115
the pequod meet the bachelor .
and jolly enough be the sight and the sound that come bear down before the wind , some few week after ahab 's harpoon have be weld .
it be a nantucket ship , the bachelor , which have just wedge in her last cask of oil , and bolt down her burst hatch ; and now , in glad holiday apparel , be joyously , though somewhat vain - gloriously , sail round among the widely - separate ship on the ground , previous to point her prow for home .
the three man at her mast - head wear long streamer of narrow red bunting at their hat ; from the stern , a whale - boat be suspend , bottom down ; and hang captive from the bowsprit be see the long low jaw of the last whale they have slay . signal , ensign , and jack of all colour be fly from her rigging , on every side . sideways lash in each of her three baskete top be two barrel of sperm ; above which , in her top - mast cross - tree , you see slender breaker of the same precious fluid ; and nail to her main truck be a brazen lamp .
as be afterwards learn , the bachelor have meet with the most surprising success ; all the more wonderful , for that while cruise in the same sea numerous other vessel have go entire month without secure a single fish . not only have barrel of beef and bread been give away to make room for the far more valuable sperm , but additional supplemental cask have be barter for , from the ship she have meet ; and these be stow along the deck , and in the captain 's and officer ' state - room . even the cabin table itself have be knock into kindling - wood ; and the cabin mess din off the broad head of an oil - butt , lash down to the floor for a centrepiece . in the forecastle , the sailor have actually caulk and pitch their chest , and fill they ; it be humorously add , that the cook have clap a head on his large boiler , and fill it ; that the steward have plug his spare coffee - pot and fill it ; that the harpooneer have head the socket of their iron and fill they ; that indeed everything be fill with sperm , except the captain 's pantaloon pocket , and those he reserve to thrust his hand into , in self - complacent testimony of his entire satisfaction .
as this glad ship of good luck bear down upon the moody pequod , the barbarian sound of enormous drum come from her forecastle ; and draw still near , a crowd of her man be see stand round her huge try - pot , which , cover with the parchment - like poke or stomach skin of the black fish , give forth a loud roar to every stroke of the clench hand of the crew . on the quarter - deck , the mate and harpooneer be dance with the olive - hue girl who have elope with they from the polynesian isles ; while suspend in an ornament boat , firmly secure aloft between the foremast and mainmast , three long island negro , with glitter fiddle - bow of whale ivory , be preside over the hilarious jig . meanwhile , other of the ship 's company be tumultuously busy at the masonry of the try - work , from which the huge pot have be remove . you would have almost think they be pull down the cursed bastille , such wild cry they raise , as the now useless brick and mortar be be hurl into the sea .
lord and master over all this scene , the captain stand erect on the ship 's elevated quarter - deck , so that the whole rejoicing drama be full before he , and seem merely contrive for his own individual diversion .
and ahab , he too be stand on his quarter - deck , shaggy and black , with a stubborn gloom ; and as the two ship cross each other 's wake -- one all jubilation for thing pass , the other all foreboding as to thing to come -- their two captain in themselves impersonate the whole striking contrast of the scene .
" come aboard , come aboard ! " cry the gay bachelor 's commander , lift a glass and a bottle in the air .
" hast see the white whale ? " grit ahab in reply .
" no ; only hear of he ; but do not believe in he at all , " say the other good - humoredly . " come aboard ! "
" thou art too damned jolly . sail on . hast lose any man ? "
" not enough to speak of -- two islander , that be all;--but come aboard , old hearty , come along . i will soon take that black from your brow . come along , will ye ( merry 's the play ) ; a full ship and homeward - bind . "
" how wondrous familiar be a fool ! " mutter ahab ; then aloud , " thou art a full ship and homeward bind , thou sayst ; well , then , call i an empty ship , and outward - bind . so go thy way , and i will mine . forward there ! set all sail , and keep she to the wind ! "
and thus , while the one ship go cheerily before the breeze , the other stubbornly fight against it ; and so the two vessel part ; the crew of the pequod look with grave , linger glance towards the recede bachelor ; but the bachelor 's man never heed their gaze for the lively revelry they be in . and as ahab , lean over the taffrail , eye the homewardbound craft , he take from his pocket a small vial of sand , and then look from the ship to the vial , seem thereby bring two remote association together , for that vial be fill with nantucket sounding .
chapter 116
the dying whale .
not seldom in this life , when , on the right side , fortune 's favourite sail close by we , we , though all adroop before , catch somewhat of the rush breeze , and joyfully feel our bagging sail fill out . so seem it with the pequod . for next day after encounter the gay bachelor , whale be see and four be slay ; and one of they by ahab .
it be far down the afternoon ; and when all the spearing of the crimson fight be do : and float in the lovely sunset sea and sky , sun and whale both stilly die together ; then , such a sweetness and such plaintiveness , such inwreathing orison curl up in that rosy air , that it almost seem as if far over from the deep green convent valley of the manilla isle , the spanish land - breeze , wantonly turn sailor , have go to sea , freight with these vesper hymn .
soothe again , but only soothe to deep gloom , ahab , who have sterne off from the whale , sat intently watch his final waning from the now tranquil boat . for that strange spectacle observable in all sperm whale die -- the turn sunward of the head , and so expire -- that strange spectacle , beheld of such a placid evening , somehow to ahab convey a wondrousness unknown before .
" he turn and turn he to it,--how slowly , but how steadfastly , his homage - rendering and invoke brow , with his last die motion . he too worship fire ; most faithful , broad , baronial vassal of the sun!--oh that these too - favour eye should see these too - favour sight . look ! here , far water - lock ; beyond all hum of human weal or woe ; in these most candid and impartial sea ; where to tradition no rock furnish tablet ; where for long chinese age , the billow have still roll on speechless and unspeak to , as star that shine upon the niger 's unknown source ; here , too , life die sunward full of faith ; but see ! no soon dead , than death whirl round the corpse , and it head some other way .
" oh , thou dark hindoo half of nature , who of drown bone hast build thy separate throne somewhere in the heart of these unverdured sea ; thou art an infidel , thou queen , and too truly speakest to i in the wide - slaughter typhoon , and the hush burial of its after calm . nor have this thy whale sunward turn his die head , and then go round again , without a lesson to i .
" oh , trebly hoop and weld hip of power ! oh , high aspiring , rainbowe jet!--that one strivest , this one jett all in vain ! in vain , oh whale , dost thou seek interceding with yon all - quicken sun , that only call forth life , but give it not again . yet dost thou , dark half , rock i with a prouder , if a dark faith . all thy unnamable immingling float beneath i here ; i be buoy by breath of once live thing , exhale as air , but water now .
" then hail , for ever hail , o sea , in whose eternal tossing the wild fowl find his only rest . bear of earth , yet suckle by the sea ; though hill and valley mother i , ye billow be my foster - brother ! "
chapter 117
the whale watch .
the four whale slay that evening have die wide apart ; one , far to windward ; one , less distant , to leeward ; one ahead ; one astern . these last three be bring alongside ere nightfall ; but the windward one could not be reach till morning ; and the boat that have kill it lie by its side all night ; and that boat be ahab 's .
the waif - pole be thrust upright into the dead whale 's spout - hole ; and the lantern hang from its top , cast a troubled flickering glare upon the black , glossy back , and far out upon the midnight wave , which gently chafe the whale 's broad flank , like soft surf upon a beach .
ahab and all his boat 's crew seem asleep but the parsee ; who crouch in the bow , sit watch the shark , that spectrally play round the whale , and tap the light cedar plank with their tail . a sound like the moaning in squadron over asphaltites of unforgiven ghost of gomorrah , run shudder through the air .
start from his slumber , ahab , face to face , see the parsee ; and hoop round by the gloom of the night they seem the last man in a flooded world . " i have dream it again , " say he .
" of the hearse ? have i not say , old man , that neither hearse nor coffin can be thine ? "
" and who be hearse that die on the sea ? "
" but i say , old man , that ere thou couldst die on this voyage , two hearse must verily be see by thee on the sea ; the first not make by mortal hand ; and the visible wood of the last one must be grow in america . "
" aye , aye ! a strange sight that , parsee:--a hearse and its plume float over the ocean with the wave for the pall - bearer . ha ! such a sight we shall not soon see . "
" believe it or not , thou canst not die till it be see , old man . "
" and what be that say about thyself ? "
" though it come to the last , i shall still go before thee thy pilot . "
" and when thou art so go before -- if that ever befall -- then ere i can follow , thou must still appear to i , to pilot i still?--was it not so ? well , then , do i believe all ye say , oh my pilot ! i have here two pledge that i shall yet slay moby dick and survive it . "
" take another pledge , old man , " say the parsee , as his eye light up like fire - fly in the gloom--"hemp only can kill thee . "
" the gallow , ye mean.--i be immortal then , on land and on sea , " cry ahab , with a laugh of derision;--"immortal on land and on sea ! "
both be silent again , as one man . the grey dawn come on , and the slumber crew arise from the boat 's bottom , and ere noon the dead whale be bring to the ship .
chapter 118
the quadrant .
the season for the line at length draw near ; and every day when ahab , come from his cabin , cast his eye aloft , the vigilant helmsman would ostentatiously handle his spoke , and the eager mariner quickly run to the brace , and would stand there with all their eye centrally fix on the nailed doubloon ; impatient for the order to point the ship 's prow for the equator . in good time the order come . it be hard upon high noon ; and ahab , seat in the bow of his high - hoist boat , be about take his wonted daily observation of the sun to determine his latitude .
now , in that japanese sea , the day in summer be as freshet of effulgence . that unblinkingly vivid japanese sun seem the blaze focus of the glassy ocean 's immeasurable burning - glass . the sky look lacquered ; cloud there be none ; the horizon float ; and this nakedness of unrelieved radiance be as the insufferable splendor of god 's throne . well that ahab 's quadrant be furnish with coloured glass , through which to take sight of that solar fire . so , swing his seat form to the roll of the ship , and with his astrological - look instrument place to his eye , he remain in that posture for some moment to catch the precise instant when the sun should gain its precise meridian . meantime while his whole attention be absorb , the parsee be kneel beneath he on the ship 's deck , and with face throw up like ahab 's , be eye the same sun with he ; only the lid of his eye half hood their orb , and his wild face be subdue to an earthly passionlessness . at length the desire observation be take ; and with his pencil upon his ivory leg , ahab soon calculate what his latitude must be at that precise instant . then fall into a moment 's revery , he again look up towards the sun and murmur to himself : " thou sea - mark ! thou high and mighty pilot ! thou tell i truly where i be -- but canst thou cast the least hint where i shall be ? or canst thou tell where some other thing besides i be this moment live ? where be moby dick ? this instant thou must be eye he . these eye of mine look into the very eye that be even now behold he ; aye , and into the eye that be even now equally behold the object on the unknown , thither side of thee , thou sun ! "
then gaze at his quadrant , and handling , one after the other , its numerous cabalistical contrivance , he ponder again , and mutter : " foolish toy ! baby ' plaything of haughty admirals , and commodores , and captain ; the world brag of thee , of thy cunning and might ; but what after all canst thou do , but tell the poor , pitiful point , where thou thyself happenest to be on this wide planet , and the hand that hold thee : no ! not one jot more ! thou canst not tell where one drop of water or one grain of sand will be to - morrow noon ; and yet with thy impotence thou insult the sun ! science ! curse thee , thou vain toy ; and curse be all the thing that cast man 's eye aloft to that heaven , whose live vividness but scorch he , as these old eye be even now scorch with thy light , o sun ! level by nature to this earth 's horizon be the glance of man 's eye ; not shoot from the crown of his head , as if god have mean he to gaze on his firmament . curse thee , thou quadrant ! " dash it to the deck , " no long will i guide my earthly way by thee ; the level ship 's compass , and the level deadreckone , by log and by line ; these shall conduct i , and show i my place on the sea . aye , " light from the boat to the deck , " thus i trample on thee , thou paltry thing that feebly pointest on high ; thus i split and destroy thee ! "
as the frantic old man thus speak and thus trample with his live and dead foot , a sneer triumph that seem mean for ahab , and a fatalistic despair that seem mean for himself -- these pass over the mute , motionless parsee 's face . unobserved he rise and glide away ; while , awestruck by the aspect of their commander , the seaman cluster together on the forecastle , till ahab , troubledly pace the deck , shout out--"to the brace ! up helm!--square in ! "
in an instant the yard swung round ; and as the ship half - wheel upon her heel , her three firm - seat graceful mast erectly poise upon her long , rib hull , seem as the three horatii pirouette on one sufficient steed .
stand between the knight - head , starbuck watch the pequod 's tumultuous way , and ahab 's also , as he went lurch along the deck .
" i have sit before the dense coal fire and watch it all aglow , full of its tormented flame life ; and i have see it wane at last , down , down , to dumb dust . old man of ocean ! of all this fiery life of thine , what will at length remain but one little heap of ash ! "
" aye , " cry stubb , " but sea - coal ash -- mind ye that , mr. starbuck -- sea - coal , not your common charcoal . well , well ; i hear ahab mutter , ' here some one thrust these card into these old hand of mine ; swear that i must play they , and no other . ' and damn i , ahab , but thou actest right ; live in the game , and die in it ! "
chapter 119
the candle .
warm clime but nurse the cruell fang : the tiger of bengal crouch in spice grove of ceaseless verdure . sky the most effulgent but basket the deadly thunder : gorgeous cuba know tornado that never sweep tame northern land . so , too , it be , that in these resplendent japanese sea the mariner encounter the dire of all storm , the typhoon . it will sometimes burst from out that cloudless sky , like an explode bomb upon a dazed and sleepy town .
towards evening of that day , the pequod be tear of her canvas , and bare - pole be leave to fight a typhoon which have strike she directly ahead . when darkness come on , sky and sea roar and split with the thunder , and blaze with the lightning , that show the disabled mast flutter here and there with the rag which the first fury of the tempest have leave for its after sport .
hold by a shroud , starbuck be stand on the quarter - deck ; at every flash of the lightning glance aloft , to see what additional disaster might have befall the intricate hamper there ; while stubb and flask be direct the man in the high hoisting and firm lashing of the boat . but all their pain seem naught . though lift to the very top of the crane , the windward quarter boat ( ahab 's ) do not escape . a great rolling sea , dash high up against the reel ship 's high teeter side , stove in the boat 's bottom at the stern , and leave it again , all drip through like a sieve .
" bad work , bad work ! mr. starbuck , " say stubb , regard the wreck , " but the sea will have its way . stubb , for one , can not fight it . you see , mr. starbuck , a wave have such a great long start before it leap , all round the world it run , and then come the spring ! but as for i , all the start i have to meet it , be just across the deck here . but never mind ; it be all in fun : so the old song says;"--(sings . )
oh ! jolly be the gale , and a joker be the whale , a ' flourishin ' his tail,-- such a funny , sporty , gamy , jesty , joky , hoky - poky lad , be the ocean , oh !
the scud all a flyin ' , that be his flip only foamin ' ; when he stir in the spicin',-- such a funny , sporty , gamy , jesty , joky , hoky - poky lad , be the ocean , oh !
thunder split the ship , but he only smack his lip , a tastin ' of this flip,-- such a funny , sporty , gamy , jesty , joky , hoky - poky lad , be the ocean , oh !
" avast stubb , " cry starbuck , " let the typhoon sing , and strike his harp here in our rigging ; but if thou art a brave man thou wilt hold thy peace . "
" but i be not a brave man ; never say i be a brave man ; i be a coward ; and i sing to keep up my spirit . and i tell you what it be , mr. starbuck , there be no way to stop my singing in this world but to cut my throat . and when that be do , ten to one i sing ye the doxology for a wind - up . "
" madman ! look through my eye if thou hast none of thine own . "
" what ! how can you see well of a dark night than anybody else , never mind how foolish ? "
" here ! " cry starbuck , seize stubb by the shoulder , and point his hand towards the weather bow , " markest thou not that the gale come from the eastward , the very course ahab be to run for moby dick ? the very course he swing to this day noon ? now mark his boat there ; where be that stove ? in the stern - sheet , man ; where he be will not to stand -- his stand - point be stove , man ! now jump overboard , and sing away , if thou must !
" i do not half understand ye : what be in the wind ? "
" yes , yes , round the cape of good hope be the short way to nantucket , " soliloquize starbuck suddenly , heedless of stubb 's question . " the gale that now hammer at we to stave we , we can turn it into a fair wind that will drive we towards home . yonder , to windward , all be blackness of doom ; but to leeward , homeward -- i see it lighten up there ; but not with the lightning . "
at that moment in one of the interval of profound darkness , follow the flash , a voice be hear at his side ; and almost at the same instant a volley of thunder peal roll overhead .
" who be there ? "
" old thunder ! " say ahab , grope his way along the bulwark to his pivot - hole ; but suddenly find his path make plain to he by elbowed lance of fire .
now , as the lightning rod to a spire on shore be intend to carry off the perilous fluid into the soil ; so the kindre rod which at sea some ship carry to each mast , be intend to conduct it into the water . but as this conductor must descend to considerable depth , that its end may avoid all contact with the hull ; and as moreover , if keep constantly tow there , it would be liable to many mishap , besides interfere not a little with some of the rigging , and more or less impede the vessel 's way in the water ; because of all this , the low part of a ship 's lightning - rod be not always overboard ; but be generally make in long slender link , so as to be the more readily haul up into the chain outside , or throw down into the sea , as occasion may require .
" the rod ! the rod ! " cry starbuck to the crew , suddenly admonish to vigilance by the vivid lightning that have just be dart flambeaux , to light ahab to his post . " be they overboard ? drop they over , fore and aft . quick ! "
" avast ! " cry ahab ; " let us have fair play here , though we be the weak side . yet i will contribute to raise rod on the himmalehs and andes , that all the world may be secure ; but out on privilege ! let they be , sir . "
" look aloft ! " cry starbuck . " the corpusant ! the corpusant !
all the yard - arm be tip with a pallid fire ; and touch at each tri - pointed lightning - rod - end with three taper white flame , each of the three tall mast be silently burn in that sulphurous air , like three gigantic wax taper before an altar .
" blast the boat ! let it go ! " cry stubb at this instant , as a swashing sea heave up under his own little craft , so that its gunwale violently jam his hand , as he be pass a lashing . " blast it!"--but slip backward on the deck , his uplifted eye catch the flame ; and immediately shift his tone he cried--"the corpusant have mercy on we all ! "
to sailor , oath be household word ; they will swear in the trance of the calm , and in the tooth of the temp ; they will imprecate curse from the topsail - yard - arm , when most they teeter over to a seething sea ; but in all my voyaging , seldom have i hear a common oath when god 's burn finger have be lay on the ship ; when his " mene , mene , tekel upharsin " have be weave into the shroud and the cordage .
while this pallidness be burn aloft , few word be hear from the enchant crew ; who in one thick cluster stand on the forecastle , all their eye gleam in that pale phosphorescence , like a far away constellation of star . relieve against the ghostly light , the gigantic jet negro , daggoo , loom up to thrice his real stature , and seem the black cloud from which the thunder have come . the part mouth of tashtego reveal his shark - white tooth , which strangely gleam as if they too have be tip by corpusant ; while light up by the preternatural light , queequeg 's tattooing burn like satanic blue flame on his body .
the tableau all wan at last with the pallidness aloft ; and once more the pequod and every soul on her deck be wrap in a pall . a moment or two pass , when starbuck , go forward , push against some one . it be stubb . " what think thou now , man ; i hear thy cry ; it be not the same in the song . "
" no , no , it be not ; i say the corpusant have mercy on we all ; and i hope they will , still . but do they only have mercy on long faces?--have they no bowel for a laugh ? and look ye , mr. starbuck -- but it be too dark to look . hear i , then : i take that mast - head flame we see for a sign of good luck ; for those mast be root in a hold that be go to be chock a ' block with sperm - oil , d'ye see ; and so , all that sperm will work up into the mast , like sap in a tree . yes , our three mast will yet be as three spermaceti candle -- that be the good promise we see . "
at that moment starbuck catch sight of stubb 's face slowly begin to glimmer into sight . glance upwards , he cry : " see ! see ! " and once more the high tapering flame be beheld with what seem redouble supernaturalness in their pallor .
" the corpusant have mercy on we all , " cry stubb , again .
at the base of the mainmast , full beneath the doubloon and the flame , the parsee be kneel in ahab 's front , but with his head bow away from he ; while near by , from the arched and overhang rigging , where they have just be engage secure a spar , a number of the seaman , arrest by the glare , now cohere together , and hung pendulous , like a knot of numb wasp from a drooping , orchard twig . in various enchant attitude , like the standing , or stepping , or run skeleton in herculaneum , other remain rooted to the deck ; but all their eye upcast .
" aye , aye , man ! " cry ahab . " look up at it ; mark it well ; the white flame but light the way to the white whale ! hand i those mainmast link there ; i would fain feel this pulse , and let mine beat against it ; blood against fire ! so . "
then turn -- the last link hold fast in his left hand , he put his foot upon the parsee ; and with fix upward eye , and high - flung right arm , he stand erect before the lofty tri - pointed trinity of flame .
" oh ! thou clear spirit of clear fire , whom on these sea i as persian once do worship , till in the sacramental act so burn by thee , that to this hour i bear the scar ; i now know thee , thou clear spirit , and i now know that thy right worship be defiance . to neither love nor reverence wilt thou be kind ; and e'en for hate thou canst but kill ; and all be kill . no fearless fool now front thee . i own thy speechless , placeless power ; but to the last gasp of my earthquake life will dispute its unconditional , unintegral mastery in i . in the midst of the personify impersonal , a personality stand here . though but a point at well ; whencesoe'er i come ; wheresoe'er i go ; yet while i earthly live , the queenly personality live in i , and feel her royal right . but war be pain , and hate be woe . come in thy low form of love , and i will kneel and kiss thee ; but at thy high , come as mere supernal power ; and though thou launch navy of full - freight world , there be that in here that still remain indifferent . oh , thou clear spirit , of thy fire thou made i , and like a true child of fire , i breathe it back to thee . "
[ sudden , repeat flashes of lightning ; the nine flames leap lengthwise to thrice their previous height ; ahab , with the rest , close his eyes , his right hand pressed hard upon they . ]
" i own thy speechless , placeless power ; say i not so ? nor be it wring from i ; nor do i now drop these link . thou canst blind ; but i can then grope . thou canst consume ; but i can then be ash . take the homage of these poor eye , and shutter - hand . i would not take it . the lightning flash through my skull ; mine eye - ball ache and ache ; my whole beat brain seem as behead , and roll on some stunning ground . oh , oh ! yet blindfold , yet will i talk to thee . light though thou be , thou leapest out of darkness ; but i be darkness leap out of light , leap out of thee ! the javelin cease ; open eye ; see , or not ? there burn the flame ! oh , thou magnanimous ! now i do glory in my genealogy . but thou art but my fiery father ; my sweet mother , i know not . oh , cruel ! what hast thou do with she ? there lie my puzzle ; but thine be great . thou know not how come ye , hence call thyself unbegotten ; certainly know not thy beginning , hence call thyself unbegun . i know that of i , which thou know not of thyself , oh , thou omnipotent . there be some unsuffuse thing beyond thee , thou clear spirit , to whom all thy eternity be but time , all thy creativeness mechanical . through thee , thy flame self , my scorched eye do dimly see it . oh , thou foundling fire , thou hermit immemorial , thou too hast thy incommunicable riddle , thy unparticipated grief . here again with haughty agony , i read my sire . leap ! leap up , and lick the sky ! i leap with thee ; i burn with thee ; would fain be weld with thee ; defyingly i worship thee ! "
" the boat ! the boat ! " cry starbuck , " look at thy boat , old man ! "
ahab 's harpoon , the one forge at perth 's fire , remained firmly lash in its conspicuous crotch , so that it project beyond his whale - boat 's bow ; but the sea that have stave its bottom have cause the loose leather sheath to drop off ; and from the keen steel barb there now come a levelled flame of pale , fork fire . as the silent harpoon burn there like a serpent 's tongue , starbuck grasp ahab by the arm--"god , god be against thee , old man ; forbear ! ' tis an ill voyage ! ill begun , ill continue ; let i square the yard , while we may , old man , and make a fair wind of it homeward , to go on a well voyage than this . "
overhearing starbuck , the panic - stricken crew instantly run to the brace -- though not a sail be leave aloft . for the moment all the aghast mate 's thought seem theirs ; they raise a half mutinous cry . but dash the rattle lightning link to the deck , and snatch the burn harpoon , ahab wave it like a torch among they ; swear to transfix with it the first sailor that but cast loose a rope 's end . petrify by his aspect , and still more shrink from the fiery dart that he hold , the man fall back in dismay , and ahab again spoke:--
" all your oath to hunt the white whale be as binding as mine ; and heart , soul , and body , lung and life , old ahab be bind . and that ye may know to what tune this heart beat ; look ye here ; thus i blow out the last fear ! " and with one blast of his breath he extinguish the flame .
as in the hurricane that sweep the plain , man fly the neighborhood of some lone , gigantic elm , whose very height and strength but render it so much the more unsafe , because so much the more a mark for thunderbolt ; so at those last word of ahab 's many of the mariner do run from he in a terror of dismay .
chapter 120
the deck towards the end of the first night watch .
ahab stand by the helm . starbuck approach him .
we must send down the main - top - sail yard , sir . the band be work loose and the lee lift be half - strand . shall i strike it , sir ? "
" strike nothing ; lash it . if i have sky - sail pole , i would sway they up now . "
" sir!--in god 's name!--sir ? "
" well . "
" the anchor be work , sir . shall i get they inboard ? "
" strike nothing , and stir nothing , but lash everything . the wind rise , but it have not get up to my table - land yet . quick , and see to it.--by mast and keel ! he take i for the hunch - back skipper of some coast smack . send down my main - top - sail yard ! ho , gluepot ! loftiest truck be make for wildest wind , and this brain - truck of mine now sail amid the cloud - scud . shall i strike that ? oh , none but coward send down their brain - truck in tempest time . what a hooroosh aloft there ! i would e'en take it for sublime , do i not know that the colic be a noisy malady . oh , take medicine , take medicine ! "
chapter 121
midnight.--the forecastle bulwarks .
stubb and flask mounted on them , and pass additional lashing over the anchors there hang .
no , stubb ; you may pound that knot there as much as you please , but you will never pound into i what you be just now say . and how long ago be it since you say the very contrary ? do not you once say that whatever ship ahab sail in , that ship should pay something extra on its insurance policy , just as though it be load with powder barrel aft and box of lucifer forward ? stop , now ; do not you say so ? "
" well , suppose i do ? what then ? i have part change my flesh since that time , why not my mind ? besides , suppose we be load with powder barrel aft and lucifer forward ; how the devil could the lucifer get afire in this drench spray here ? why , my little man , you have pretty red hair , but you could not get afire now . shake yourself ; you be aquarius , or the water - bearer , flask ; might fill pitcher at your coat collar . do not you see , then , that for these extra risk the marine insurance company have extra guarantee ? here be hydrant , flask . but hark , again , and i will answer ye the other thing . first take your leg off from the crown of the anchor here , though , so i can pass the rope ; now listen . what be the mighty difference between hold a mast 's lightning - rod in the storm , and stand close by a mast that have not get any lightning - rod at all in a storm ? do not you see , you timber - head , that no harm can come to the holder of the rod , unless the mast be first strike ? what be you talk about , then ? not one ship in a hundred carry rod , and ahab,--aye , man , and all of us,--were in no more danger then , in my poor opinion , than all the crew in ten thousand ship now sail the sea . why , you king - post , you , i suppose you would have every man in the world go about with a small lightning - rod run up the corner of his hat , like a militia officer 's skewered feather , and trail behind like his sash . why do not ye be sensible , flask ? it be easy to be sensible ; why do not ye , then ? any man with half an eye can be sensible . "
" i do not know that , stubb . you sometimes find it rather hard . "
" yes , when a fellow 's soak through , it be hard to be sensible , that be a fact . and i be about drench with this spray . never mind ; catch the turn there , and pass it . seem to i we be lash down these anchor now as if they be never go to be use again . tie these two anchor here , flask , seem like tie a man 's hand behind he . and what big generous hand they be , to be sure . these be your iron fist , hey ? what a hold they have , too ! i wonder , flask , whether the world be anchor anywhere ; if she be , she swing with an uncommon long cable , though . there , hammer that knot down , and we have do . so ; next to touch land , light on deck be the most satisfactory . i say , just wre out my jacket skirt , will ye ? thank ye . they laugh at long - tog so , flask ; but seem to i , a long tail coat ought always to be wear in all storm afloat . the tail taper down that way , serve to carry off the water , d'ye see . same with cocked hat ; the cock form gable - end eave - troughs , flask . no more monkey - jacket and tarpaulin for i ; i must mount a swallow - tail , and drive down a beaver ; so . halloa ! whew ! there go my tarpaulin overboard ; lord , lord , that the wind that come from heaven should be so unmannerly ! this be a nasty night , lad . "
chapter 122
midnight aloft.--thunder and lightning .
the main - top - sail yard.--tashtego pass new lashing around it .
" um , um , um . stop that thunder ! plenty too much thunder up here . what be the use of thunder ? um , um , um . we do not want thunder ; we want rum ; give we a glass of rum . um , um , um ! "
chapter 123
the musket .
during the most violent shock of the typhoon , the man at the pequod 's jaw - bone tiller have several time be reelingly hurl to the deck by its spasmodic motion , even though preventer tackle have be attach to it -- for they be slack -- because some play to the tiller be indispensable .
in a severe gale like this , while the ship be but a tossed shuttlecock to the blast , it be by no mean uncommon to see the needle in the compass , at interval , go round and round . it be thus with the pequod 's ; at almost every shock the helmsman have not fail to notice the whirling velocity with which they revolve upon the card ; it be a sight that hardly anyone can behold without some sort of unwonted emotion .
some hour after midnight , the typhoon abate so much , that through the strenuous exertion of starbuck and stubb -- one engage forward and the other aft -- the shiver remnant of the jib and fore and main - top - sail be cut adrift from the spar , and go eddying away to leeward , like the feather of an albatross , which sometimes be cast to the wind when that storm - toss bird be on the wing .
the three correspond new sail be now bent and reef , and a storm - trysail be set further aft ; so that the ship soon go through the water with some precision again ; and the course -- for the present , east - south - east -- which he be to steer , if practicable , be once more give to the helmsman . for during the violence of the gale , he have only steer accord to its vicissitude . but as he be now bring the ship as near her course as possible , watch the compass meanwhile , lo ! a good sign ! the wind seem come round astern ; aye , the foul breeze become fair !
instantly the yard be square , to the lively song of " ho ! the fair wind ! oh - ye - ho , cheerly men ! " the crew sing for joy , that so promise an event should so soon have falsify the evil portent precede it .
in compliance with the stand order of his commander -- to report immediately , and at any one of the twenty - four hour , any decide change in the affair of the deck,--starbuck have no soon trim the yard to the breeze -- however reluctantly and gloomily,--than he mechanically go below to apprise captain ahab of the circumstance .
ere knock at his state - room , he involuntarily pause before it a moment . the cabin lamp -- take long swing this way and that -- be burn fitfully , and cast fitful shadow upon the old man 's bolt door,--a thin one , with fix blind insert , in place of upper panel . the isolated subterraneousness of the cabin make a certain hum silence to reign there , though it be hoop round by all the roar of the element . the loaded musket in the rack be shiningly reveal , as they stand upright against the forward bulkhead . starbuck be an honest , upright man ; but out of starbuck 's heart , at that instant when he see the musket , there strangely evolve an evil thought ; but so blent with its neutral or good accompaniment that for the instant he hardly know it for itself .
" he would have shoot i once , " he murmur , " yes , there be the very musket that he point at me;--that one with the studded stock ; let i touch it -- lift it . strange , that i , who have handle so many deadly lance , strange , that i should shake so now . load ? i must see . aye , aye ; and powder in the pan;--that be not good . good spill it?--wait . i will cure myself of this . i will hold the musket boldly while i think.--i come to report a fair wind to he . but how fair ? fair for death and doom,--that be fair for moby dick . it be a fair wind that be only fair for that accurse fish.--the very tube he point at me!--the very one ; this one -- i hold it here ; he would have kill i with the very thing i handle now.--aye and he would fain kill all his crew . do he not say he will not strike his spar to any gale ? have he not dash his heavenly quadrant ? and in these same perilous sea , grope he not his way by mere dead reckoning of the error - abound log ? and in this very typhoon , do he not swear that he would have no lightning - rod ? but shall this craze old man be tamely suffer to drag a whole ship 's company down to doom with him?--yes , it would make he the wilful murderer of thirty man and more , if this ship come to any deadly harm ; and come to deadly harm , my soul swear this ship will , if ahab have his way . if , then , he be this instant -- put aside , that crime would not be his . ha ! be he mutter in his sleep ? yes , just there,--in there , he be sleep . sleep ? aye , but still alive , and soon awake again . i can not withstand thee , then , old man . not reason ; not remonstrance ; not entreaty wilt thou hearken to ; all this thou scornest . flat obedience to thy own flat command , this be all thou breathest . aye , and say'st the man have vow'd thy vow ; say'st all of we be ahabs . great god forbid!--but be there no other way ? no lawful way?--make he a prisoner to be take home ? what ! hope to wrest this old man 's living power from his own living hand ? only a fool would try it . say he be pinion even ; knot all over with rope and hawser ; chain down to ring - bolt on this cabin floor ; he would be more hideous than a cage tiger , then . i could not endure the sight ; could not possibly fly his howling ; all comfort , sleep itself , inestimable reason would leave i on the long intolerable voyage . what , then , remain ? the land be hundred of league away , and lock japan the near . i stand alone here upon an open sea , with two ocean and a whole continent between i and law.--aye , aye , ' tis so.--is heaven a murderer when its lightning strike a would - be murderer in his bed , tindere sheet and skin together?--and would i be a murderer , then , if"--and slowly , stealthily , and half sideways look , he place the loaded musket 's end against the door .
" on this level , ahab 's hammock swing within ; his head this way . a touch , and starbuck may survive to hug his wife and child again.--oh mary ! mary!--boy ! boy ! boy!--but if i wake thee not to death , old man , who can tell to what unsounde deep starbuck 's body this day week may sink , with all the crew ! great god , where art thou ? shall i ? shall i?--the wind have go down and shift , sir ; the fore and main topsail be reef and set ; she head her course . "
" stern all ! oh moby dick , i clutch thy heart at last ! "
such be the sound that now come hurtle from out the old man 's tormented sleep , as if starbuck 's voice have cause the long dumb dream to speak .
the yet level musket shake like a drunkard 's arm against the panel ; starbuck seem wrestle with an angel ; but turn from the door , he place the death - tube in its rack , and leave the place .
" he be too sound asleep , mr. stubb ; go thou down , and wake he , and tell he . i must see to the deck here . thou know'st what to say . "
chapter 124
the needle .
next morning the not - yet - subside sea roll in long slow billow of mighty bulk , and strive in the pequod 's gurgle track , push she on like giant ' palm outspread . the strong , unstaggere breeze abound so , that sky and air seem vast outbellying sail ; the whole world boom before the wind . muffle in the full morning light , the invisible sun be only know by the spread intensity of his place ; where his bayonet ray move on in stack . emblazoning , as of crown babylonian king and queen , reign over everything . the sea be as a crucible of molten gold , that bubblingly leap with light and heat .
long maintain an enchanted silence , ahab stand apart ; and every time the tetering ship loweringly pitch down her bowsprit , he turn to eye the bright sun 's ray produce ahead ; and when she profoundly settle by the stern , he turn behind , and see the sun 's rearward place , and how the same yellow ray be blend with his undeviating wake .
" ha , ha , my ship ! thou mightest well be take now for the sea - chariot of the sun . ho , ho ! all ye nation before my prow , i bring the sun to ye ! yoke on the further billow ; hallo ! a tandem , i drive the sea ! "
but suddenly rein back by some counter thought , he hurry towards the helm , huskily demand how the ship be head .
" east - sou - east , sir , " say the frightened steersman .
" thou liest ! " smite he with his clench fist . " heading east at this hour in the morning , and the sun astern ? "
upon this every soul be confound ; for the phenomenon just then observe by ahab have unaccountably escape every one else ; but its very blinding palpableness must have be the cause .
thrust his head half way into the binnacle , ahab catch one glimpse of the compass ; his uplifted arm slowly fall ; for a moment he almost seem to stagger . stand behind he starbuck look , and lo ! the two compass point east , and the pequod be as infallibly go west .
but ere the first wild alarm could get out abroad among the crew , the old man with a rigid laugh exclaim , " i have it ! it have happen before . mr. starbuck , last night 's thunder turn our compass -- that be all . thou hast before now hear of such a thing , i take it . "
" aye ; but never before have it happen to i , sir , " say the pale mate , gloomily .
here , it must need be say , that accident like this have in more than one case occur to ship in violent storm . the magnetic energy , as develop in the mariner 's needle , be , as all know , essentially one with the electricity beheld in heaven ; hence it be not to be much marvel at , that such thing should be . instance where the lightning have actually strike the vessel , so as to smite down some of the spar and rigging , the effect upon the needle have at time be still more fatal ; all its loadstone virtue be annihilate , so that the before magnetic steel be of no more use than an old wife 's knitting needle . but in either case , the needle never again , of itself , recover the original virtue thus mar or lose ; and if the binnacle compass be affect , the same fate reach all the other that may be in the ship ; even be the lowermost one insert into the kelson .
deliberately stand before the binnacle , and eye the transpointe compass , the old man , with the sharp of his extended hand , now take the precise bearing of the sun , and satisfy that the needle be exactly invert , shout out his order for the ship 's course to be change accordingly . the yard be hard up ; and once more the pequod thrust her undaunted bow into the oppose wind , for the suppose fair one have only be juggle she .
meanwhile , whatever be his own secret thought , starbuck say nothing , but quietly he issue all requisite order ; while stubb and flask -- who in some small degree seem then to be share his feeling -- likewise unmurmuringly acquiesce . as for the man , though some of they lowly rumble , their fear of ahab be great than their fear of fate . but as ever before , the pagan harpooneer remain almost wholly unimpressed ; or if impress , it be only with a certain magnetism shoot into their congenial heart from inflexible ahab 's .
for a space the old man walk the deck in rolling revery . but chance to slip with his ivory heel , he see the crushed copper sight - tube of the quadrant he have the day before dash to the deck .
" thou poor , proud heaven - gazer and sun 's pilot ! yesterday i wreck thee , and to - day the compass would fain have wreck i . so , so . but ahab be lord over the level loadstone yet . mr. starbuck -- a lance without a pole ; a top - maul , and the small of the sail - maker 's needle . quick ! "
accessory , perhaps , to the impulse dictate the thing he be now about to do , be certain prudential motif , whose object might have be to revive the spirit of his crew by a stroke of his subtile skill , in a matter so wondrous as that of the invert compass . besides , the old man well know that to steer by transpointe needle , though clumsily practicable , be not a thing to be pass over by superstitious sailor , without some shuddering and evil portent .
" man , " say he , steadily turn upon the crew , as the mate hand he the thing he have demand , " my man , the thunder turn old ahab 's needle ; but out of this bit of steel ahab can make one of his own , that will point as true as any . "
abashed glance of servile wonder be exchange by the sailor , as this be say ; and with fascinated eye they await whatever magic might follow . but starbuck look away .
with a blow from the top - maul ahab knock off the steel head of the lance , and then hand to the mate the long iron rod remain , bid he hold it upright , without its touch the deck . then , with the maul , after repeatedly smite the upper end of this iron rod , he place the blunted needle endwise on the top of it , and less strongly hammer that , several time , the mate still hold the rod as before . then go through some small strange motion with it -- whether indispensable to the magnetizing of the steel , or merely intend to augment the awe of the crew , be uncertain -- he call for linen thread ; and move to the binnacle , slip out the two reversed needle there , and horizontally suspend the sail - needle by its middle , over one of the compass - card . at first , the steel go round and round , quiver and vibrate at either end ; but at last it settle to its place , when ahab , who have be intently watch for this result , step frankly back from the binnacle , and point his stretched arm towards it , exclaimed,--"look ye , for yourself , if ahab be not lord of the level loadstone ! the sun be east , and that compass swear it ! "
one after another they peer in , for nothing but their own eye could persuade such ignorance as theirs , and one after another they slunk away .
in his fiery eye of scorn and triumph , you then see ahab in all his fatal pride .
chapter 125
the log and line .
while now the fat pequod have be so long afloat this voyage , the log and line have but very seldom be in use . owe to a confident reliance upon other mean of determine the vessel 's place , some merchantman , and many whaleman , especially when cruise , wholly neglect to heave the log ; though at the same time , and frequently more for form 's sake than anything else , regularly put down upon the customary slate the course steer by the ship , as well as the presume average rate of progression every hour . it have be thus with the pequod . the wooden reel and angular log attach hung , long untouched , just beneath the railing of the after bulwark . rain and spray have damp it ; sun and wind have warp it ; all the element have combine to rot a thing that hang so idly . but heedless of all this , his mood seize ahab , as he happen to glance upon the reel , not many hour after the magnet scene , and he remember how his quadrant be no more , and recall his frantic oath about the level log and line . the ship be sail plungingly ; astern the billow roll in riot .
" forward , there ! heave the log ! "
two seaman come . the golden - hue tahitian and the grizzly manxman . " take the reel , one of ye , i will heave . "
they go towards the extreme stern , on the ship 's lee side , where the deck , with the oblique energy of the wind , be now almost dip into the creamy , sidelong - rush sea .
the manxman take the reel , and hold it high up , by the project handle - end of the spindle , round which the spool of line revolve , so stand with the angular log hang downwards , till ahab advance to he .
ahab stand before he , and be lightly unwind some thirty or forty turn to form a preliminary hand - coil to toss overboard , when the old manxman , who be intently eye both he and the line , make bold to speak .
" sir , i mistrust it ; this line look far gone , long heat and wet have spoil it . "
" ' twill hold , old gentleman . long heat and wet , have they spoil thee ? thou seem'st to hold . or , truer perhaps , life hold thee ; not thou it . "
" i hold the spool , sir . but just as my captain say . with these grey hair of mine ' tis not worth while dispute , ' specially with a superior , who will ne'er confess . "
" what be that ? there now be a patch professor in queen nature 's granite - found college ; but methink he be too subservient . where wert thou bear ? "
" in the little rocky isle of man , sir . "
" excellent ! thou'st hit the world by that . "
" i know not , sir , but i be bear there . "
" in the isle of man , hey ? well , the other way , it be good . here be a man from man ; a man bear in once independent man , and now unmanned of man ; which be suck in -- by what ? up with the reel ! the dead , blind wall butts all inquire head at last . up with it ! so . "
the log be heave . the loose coil rapidly straighten out in a long drag line astern , and then , instantly , the reel begin to whirl . in turn , jerkingly raise and lower by the roll billow , the tow resistance of the log cause the old reelman to stagger strangely .
" hold hard ! "
snap ! the overstrained line sag down in one long festoon ; the tugging log be go .
" i crush the quadrant , the thunder turn the needle , and now the mad sea part the log - line . but ahab can mend all . haul in here , tahitian ; reel up , manxman . and look ye , let the carpenter make another log , and mend thou the line . see to it . "
" there he go now ; to he nothing be happen ; but to i , the skewer seem loosen out of the middle of the world . haul in , haul in , tahitian ! these line run whole , and whirl out : come in broken , and drag slow . ha , pip ? come to help ; eh , pip ? "
" pip ? whom call ye pip ? pip jump from the whale - boat . pip 's missing . let us see now if ye have not fish he up here , fisherman . it drag hard ; i guess he be hold on . jerk he , tahiti ! jerk he off ; we haul in no coward here . ho ! there be his arm just break water . a hatchet ! a hatchet ! cut it off -- we haul in no coward here . captain ahab ! sir , sir ! here be pip , try to get on board again . "
" peace , thou crazy loon , " cry the manxman , seize he by the arm . " away from the quarter - deck ! "
" the great idiot ever scold the less , " mutter ahab , advance . " hand off from that holiness ! where sayest thou pip be , boy ?
" astern there , sir , astern ! lo ! lo ! "
" and who art thou , boy ? i see not my reflection in the vacant pupil of thy eye . oh god ! that man should be a thing for immortal soul to sieve through ! who art thou , boy ? "
" bell - boy , sir ; ship's - crier ; ding , dong , ding ! pip ! pip ! pip ! one hundred pound of clay reward for pip ; five foot high -- look cowardly -- quick know by that ! ding , dong , ding ! who be see pip the coward ? "
" there can be no heart above the snow - line . oh , ye frozen heaven ! look down here . ye do beget this luckless child , and have abandon he , ye creative libertine . here , boy ; ahab 's cabin shall be pip 's home henceforth , while ahab live . thou touch my inmost centre , boy ; thou art tie to i by cord weave of my heart - string . come , let us down . "
" what be this ? here 's velvet shark - skin , " intently gaze at ahab 's hand , and feel it . " ah , now , have poor pip but feel so kind a thing as this , perhaps he have ne'er be lose ! this seem to i , sir , as a man - rope ; something that weak soul may hold by . oh , sir , let old perth now come and rivet these two hand together ; the black one with the white , for i will not let this go . "
" oh , boy , nor will i thee , unless i should thereby drag thee to bad horror than be here . come , then , to my cabin . lo ! ye believer in god all goodness , and in man all ill , lo you ! see the omniscient god oblivious of suffer man ; and man , though idiotic , and know not what he do , yet full of the sweet thing of love and gratitude . come ! i feel prouder lead thee by thy black hand , than though i grasp an emperor 's ! "
" there go two daft one now , " mutter the old manxman . " one daft with strength , the other daft with weakness . but here be the end of the rotten line -- all dripping , too . mend it , eh ? i think we have well have a new line altogether . i will see mr. stubb about it . "
chapter 126
the life - buoy .
steer now south - eastward by ahab 's levelled steel , and her progress solely determine by ahab 's level log and line ; the pequod hold on her path towards the equator . make so long a passage through such unfrequented water , descry no ship , and ere long , sideways impel by unvarye trade wind , over wave monotonously mild ; all these seem the strange calm thing prelude some riotous and desperate scene .
at last , when the ship draw near to the outskirt , as it be , of the equatorial fishing - ground , and in the deep darkness that go before the dawn , be sail by a cluster of rocky islet ; the watch -- then head by flask -- be startle by a cry so plaintively wild and unearthly -- like half - articulate wailing of the ghost of all herod 's murder innocent -- that one and all , they start from their revery , and for the space of some moment stand , or sit , or lean all transfixedly listen , like the carved roman slave , while that wild cry remain within hearing . the christian or civilized part of the crew say it be mermaid , and shudder ; but the pagan harpooneers remain unappalled . yet the grey manxman -- the old mariner of all -- declare that the wild thrilling sound that be hear , be the voice of newly drown man in the sea .
below in his hammock , ahab do not hear of this till grey dawn , when he come to the deck ; it be then recount to he by flask , not unaccompanie with hint dark meaning . he hollowly laugh , and thus explain the wonder .
those rocky island the ship have pass be the resort of great number of seal , and some young seal that have lose their dam , or some dam that have lose their cub , must have rise nigh the ship and keep company with she , cry and sob with their human sort of wail . but this only the more affected some of they , because most mariner cherish a very superstitious feeling about seal , arise not only from their peculiar tone when in distress , but also from the human look of their round head and semi - intelligent face , see peeringly uprising from the water alongside . in the sea , under certain circumstance , seal have more than once be mistaken for man .
but the boding of the crew be destine to receive a most plausible confirmation in the fate of one of their number that morning . at sun - rise this man go from his hammock to his mast - head at the fore ; and whether it be that he be not yet half wake from his sleep ( for sailor sometimes go aloft in a transition state ) , whether it be thus with the man , there be now no telling ; but , be that as it may , he have not be long at his perch , when a cry be hear -- a cry and a rushing -- and look up , they see a fall phantom in the air ; and look down , a little tossed heap of white bubble in the blue of the sea .
the life - buoy -- a long slender cask -- be drop from the stern , where it always hang obedient to a cunning spring ; but no hand rise to seize it , and the sun having long beat upon this cask it have shrink , so that it slowly fill , and that parch wood also fill at its every pore ; and the stud iron - bind cask follow the sailor to the bottom , as if to yield he his pillow , though in sooth but a hard one .
and thus the first man of the pequod that mount the mast to look out for the white whale , on the white whale 's own peculiar ground ; that man be swallow up in the deep . but few , perhaps , think of that at the time . indeed , in some sort , they be not grieve at this event , at least as a portent ; for they regard it , not as a foreshadowing of evil in the future , but as the fulfilment of an evil already presage . they declare that now they know the reason of those wild shriek they have hear the night before . but again the old manxman say nay .
the lost life - buoy be now to be replace ; starbuck be direct to see to it ; but as no cask of sufficient lightness could be find , and as in the feverish eagerness of what seem the approach crisis of the voyage , all hand be impatient of any toil but what be directly connect with its final end , whatever that might prove to be ; therefore , they be go to leave the ship 's stern unprovide with a buoy , when by certain strange sign and inuendoe queequeg hint a hint concern his coffin .
" a life - buoy of a coffin ! " cry starbuck , start .
" rather queer , that , i should say , " say stubb .
" it will make a good enough one , " say flask , " the carpenter here can arrange it easily . "
" bring it up ; there be nothing else for it , " say starbuck , after a melancholy pause . " rig it , carpenter ; do not look at i so -- the coffin , i mean . dost thou hear i ? rig it . "
" and shall i nail down the lid , sir ? " move his hand as with a hammer .
" aye . "
" and shall i caulk the seam , sir ? " move his hand as with a caulking - iron .
" aye . "
" and shall i then pay over the same with pitch , sir ? " move his hand as with a pitch - pot .
" away ! what possess thee to this ? make a life - buoy of the coffin , and no more.--mr . stubb , mr. flask , come forward with i . "
" he go off in a huff . the whole he can endure ; at the part he baulk . now i do not like this . i make a leg for captain ahab , and he wear it like a gentleman ; but i make a bandbox for queequeg , and he will not put his head into it . be all my pain to go for nothing with that coffin ? and now i be order to make a life - buoy of it . it be like turn an old coat ; go to bring the flesh on the other side now . i do not like this cobble sort of business -- i do not like it at all ; it be undignifie ; it be not my place . let tinker ' brat do tinkering ; we be their better . i like to take in hand none but clean , virgin , fair - and - square mathematical job , something that regularly begin at the beginning , and be at the middle when midway , and come to an end at the conclusion ; not a cobbler 's job , that be at an end in the middle , and at the beginning at the end . it be the old woman 's trick to be give cobble job . lord ! what an affection all old woman have for tinker . i know an old woman of sixty - five who run away with a bald - headed young tinker once . and that be the reason i never would work for lonely widow old woman ashore , when i keep my job - shop in the vineyard ; they might have take it into their lonely old head to run off with i . but heigh - ho ! there be no cap at sea but snow - cap . let i see . nail down the lid ; caulk the seam ; pay over the same with pitch ; batten they down tight , and hang it with the snap - spring over the ship 's stern . be ever such thing do before with a coffin ? some superstitious old carpenter , now , would be tie up in the rigging , ere they would do the job . but i be make of knotty aroostook hemlock ; i do not budge . cruppere with a coffin ! sail about with a grave - yard tray ! but never mind . we worker in wood make bridal - bedstead and card - table , as well as coffin and hearse . we work by the month , or by the job , or by the profit ; not for we to ask the why and wherefore of our work , unless it be too confound cobble , and then we stash it if we can . hem ! i will do the job , now , tenderly . i will have i -- let us see -- how many in the ship 's company , all tell ? but i have forget . any way , i will have i thirty separate , turk's - head life - line , each three foot long hang all round to the coffin . then , if the hull go down , there will be thirty lively fellow all fight for one coffin , a sight not see very often beneath the sun ! come hammer , caulking - iron , pitch - pot , and marling - spike ! let us to it . "
chapter 127
the deck .
the coffin lay upon two line - tubs , between the vice - bench and the open hatchway ; the carpenter caulk its seams ; the string of twisted oakum slowly unwind from a large roll of it place in the bosom of his frock.--ahab comes slowly from the cabin - gangway , and hear pip follow him .
back , lad ; i will be with ye again presently . he go ! not this hand complie with my humor more genially than that boy.--middle aisle of a church ! what be here ? "
" life - buoy , sir . mr. starbuck 's order . oh , look , sir ! beware the hatchway ! "
" thank ye , man . thy coffin lie handy to the vault . "
" sir ? the hatchway ? oh ! so it do , sir , so it do . "
" art not thou the leg - maker ? look , do not this stump come from thy shop ? "
" i believe it do , sir ; do the ferrule stand , sir ? "
" well enough . but art thou not also the undertaker ? "
" aye , sir ; i patch up this thing here as a coffin for queequeg ; but they have set i now to turn it into something else . "
" then tell i ; art thou not an arrant , all - grasp , intermeddling , monopolising , heathenish old scamp , to be one day make leg , and the next day coffin to clap they in , and yet again life - buoy out of those same coffin ? thou art as unprincipled as the god , and as much of a jack - of - all - trade . "
" but i do not mean anything , sir . i do as i do . "
" the god again . hark ye , dost thou not ever sing work about a coffin ? the titans , they say , hum snatch when chip out the crater for volcano ; and the grave - digger in the play sing , spade in hand . dost thou never ? "
" sing , sir ? do i sing ? oh , i be indifferent enough , sir , for that ; but the reason why the grave - digger make music must have be because there be none in his spade , sir . but the caulk mallet be full of it . hark to it . "
" aye , and that be because the lid there be a sounding - board ; and what in all thing make the sound - board be this -- there be naught beneath . and yet , a coffin with a body in it ring pretty much the same , carpenter . hast thou ever help carry a bi , and hear the coffin knock against the churchyard gate , go in ?
" faith , sir , i've-- "
" faith ? what be that ? "
" why , faith , sir , it be only a sort of exclamation - like -- that be all , sir . "
" um , um ; go on . "
" i be about to say , sir , that-- "
" art thou a silk - worm ? dost thou spin thy own shroud out of thyself ? look at thy bosom ! despatch ! and get these trap out of sight . "
" he go aft . that be sudden , now ; but squall come sudden in hot latitude . i have hear that the isle of albemarle , one of the gallipagos , be cut by the equator right in the middle . seem to i some sort of equator cut yon old man , too , right in his middle . he be always under the line -- fiery hot , i tell ye ! he be look this way -- come , oakum ; quick . here we go again . this wooden mallet be the cork , and i be the professor of musical glass -- tap , tap ! "
( ahab to himself . )
" there be a sight ! there be a sound ! the grey - head woodpecker tap the hollow tree ! blind and dumb might well be envy now . see ! that thing rest on two line - tub , full of tow - line . a most malicious wag , that fellow . rat - tat ! so man 's second tick ! oh ! how immaterial be all material ! what thing real be there , but imponderable thought ? here now be the very dreaded symbol of grim death , by a mere hap , make the expressive sign of the help and hope of most endangered life . a life - buoy of a coffin ! do it go far ? can it be that in some spiritual sense the coffin be , after all , but an immortality - preserver ! i will think of that . but no . so far go be i in the dark side of earth , that its other side , the theoretic bright one , seem but uncertain twilight to i . will ye never have do , carpenter , with that accurse sound ? i go below ; let i not see that thing here when i return again . now , then , pip , we will talk this over ; i do suck most wondrous philosophy from thee ! some unknown conduit from the unknown world must empty into thee ! "
chapter 128
the pequod meet the rachel .
next day , a large ship , the rachel , be descried , bear directly down upon the pequod , all her spar thickly cluster with man . at the time the pequod be make good speed through the water ; but as the broad - wing windward stranger shot nigh to she , the boastful sail all fall together as blank bladder that be burst , and all life flee from the smite hull .
" bad news ; she bring bad news , " mutter the old manxman . but ere her commander , who , with trumpet to mouth , stand up in his boat ; ere he could hopefully hail , ahab 's voice be hear .
" hast see the white whale ? "
" aye , yesterday . have ye see a whale - boat adrift ? "
throttle his joy , ahab negatively answer this unexpected question ; and would then have fain board the stranger , when the strange captain himself , having stop his vessel 's way , be see descend her side . a few keen pull , and his boat - hook soon clinch the pequod 's main - chain , and he spring to the deck . immediately he be recognise by ahab for a nantucketer he know . but no formal salutation be exchange .
" where be he?--not killed!--not kill ! " cry ahab , closely advance . " how be it ? "
it seem that somewhat late on the afternoon of the day previous , while three of the stranger 's boat be engage with a shoal of whale , which have lead they some four or five mile from the ship ; and while they be yet in swift chase to windward , the white hump and head of moby dick have suddenly loom up out of the water , not very far to leeward ; whereupon , the fourth rig boat -- a reserved one -- have be instantly lower in chase . after a keen sail before the wind , this fourth boat -- the swift keel of all -- seem to have succeed in fasten -- at least , as well as the man at the mast - head could tell anything about it . in the distance he see the diminish dotted boat ; and then a swift gleam of bubble white water ; and after that nothing more ; whence it be conclude that the stricken whale must have indefinitely run away with his pursuer , as often happen . there be some apprehension , but no positive alarm , as yet . the recall signal be place in the rigging ; darkness come on ; and force to pick up her three far to windward boat -- ere go in quest of the fourth one in the precisely opposite direction -- the ship have not only be necessitate to leave that boat to its fate till near midnight , but , for the time , to increase her distance from it . but the rest of her crew be at last safe aboard , she crowd all sail -- stunsail on stunsail -- after the missing boat ; kindle a fire in her try - pot for a beacon ; and every other man aloft on the look - out . but though when she have thus sail a sufficient distance to gain the presume place of the absent one when last see ; though she then pause to lower her spare boat to pull all around she ; and not find anything , have again dash on ; again pause , and lower her boat ; and though she have thus continue do till daylight ; yet not the least glimpse of the miss keel have be see .
the story tell , the stranger captain immediately go on to reveal his object in board the pequod . he desire that ship to unite with his own in the search ; by sail over the sea some four or five mile apart , on parallel line , and so sweep a double horizon , as it be .
" i will wager something now , " whisper stubb to flask , " that some one in that missing boat wear off that captain 's good coat ; mayhap , his watch -- he be so cursed anxious to get it back . who ever hear of two pious whale - ship cruise after one miss whale - boat in the height of the whale season ? see , flask , only see how pale he look -- pale in the very button of his eye -- look -- it be not the coat -- it must have be the-- "
" my boy , my own boy be among they . for god 's sake -- i beg , i conjure"--here exclaim the stranger captain to ahab , who thus far have but icily receive his petition . " for eight - and - forty hour let i charter your ship -- i will gladly pay for it , and roundly pay for it -- if there be no other way -- for eight - and - forty hour only -- only that -- you must , oh , you must , and you shall do this thing . "
" his son ! " cry stubb , " oh , it be his son he be lose ! i take back the coat and watch -- what say ahab ? we must save that boy . "
" he be drown with the rest on them , last night , " say the old manx sailor stand behind they ; " i hear ; all of ye hear their spirit . "
now , as it shortly turn out , what make this incident of the rachel 's the more melancholy , be the circumstance , that not only be one of the captain 's son among the number of the miss boat 's crew ; but among the number of the other boat 's crew , at the same time , but on the other hand , separate from the ship during the dark vicissitude of the chase , there have be still another son ; as that for a time , the wretched father be plunge to the bottom of the cruell perplexity ; which be only solve for he by his chief mate 's instinctively adopt the ordinary procedure of a whale - ship in such emergency , that is , when place between jeopardized but divided boat , always to pick up the majority first . but the captain , for some unknown constitutional reason , have refrain from mention all this , and not till force to it by ahab 's iciness do he allude to his one yet miss boy ; a little lad , but twelve year old , whose father with the earnest but unmisgive hardihood of a nantucketer 's paternal love , have thus early seek to initiate he in the peril and wonder of a vocation almost immemorially the destiny of all his race . nor do it unfrequently occur , that nantucket captain will send a son of such tender age away from they , for a protract three or four year ' voyage in some other ship than their own ; so that their first knowledge of a whaleman 's career shall be unenervate by any chance display of a father 's natural but untimely partiality , or undue apprehensiveness and concern .
meantime , now the stranger be still beseech his poor boon of ahab ; and ahab still stand like an anvil , receive every shock , but without the least quivering of his own .
" i will not go , " say the stranger , " till you say aye to i . do to i as you would have i do to you in the like case . for you too have a boy , captain ahab -- though but a child , and nestle safely at home now -- a child of your old age too -- yes , yes , you relent ; i see it -- run , run , man , now , and stand by to square in the yard . "
" avast , " cry ahab--"touch not a rope - yarn " ; then in a voice that prolongingly mould every word--"captain gardiner , i will not do it . even now i lose time . good - bye , good - bye . god bless ye , man , and may i forgive myself , but i must go . mr. starbuck , look at the binnacle watch , and in three minute from this present instant warn off all stranger : then brace forward again , and let the ship sail as before . "
hurriedly turn , with avert face , he descend into his cabin , leave the strange captain transfix at this unconditional and utter rejection of his so earnest suit . but start from his enchantment , gardiner silently hurry to the side ; more fell than step into his boat , and return to his ship .
soon the two ship diverge their wake ; and long as the strange vessel be in view , she be see to yaw hither and thither at every dark spot , however small , on the sea . this way and that her yard be swing round ; starboard and larboard , she continue to tack ; now she beat against a head sea ; and again it push she before it ; while all the while , her mast and yard be thickly cluster with man , as three tall cherry tree , when the boy be cherrye among the bough .
but by she still halt course and winding , woeful way , you plainly see that this ship that so weep with spray , still remain without comfort . she be rachel , weep for her child , because they be not .
chapter 129
the cabin .
( ahab move to go on deck ; pip catches him by the hand to follow . )
lad , lad , i tell thee thou must not follow ahab now . the hour be come when ahab would not scare thee from he , yet would not have thee by he . there be that in thee , poor lad , which i feel too cure to my malady . like cure like ; and for this hunt , my malady become my most desire health . do thou abide below here , where they shall serve thee , as if thou wert the captain . aye , lad , thou shalt sit here in my own screw chair ; another screw to it , thou must be . "
" no , no , no ! ye have not a whole body , sir ; do ye but use poor i for your one lose leg ; only tread upon i , sir ; i ask no more , so i remain a part of ye . "
" oh ! spite of million villain , this make i a bigot in the fadeless fidelity of man!--and a black ! and crazy!--but methink like - cure - like apply to he too ; he grow so sane again . "
" they tell i , sir , that stubb do once desert poor little pip , whose drown bone now show white , for all the blackness of his live skin . but i will never desert ye , sir , as stubb do he . sir , i must go with ye . "
" if thou speak thus to i much more , ahab 's purpose keel up in he . i tell thee no ; it can not be . "
" oh good master , master , master !
" weep so , and i will murder thee ! have a care , for ahab too be mad . listen , and thou wilt often hear my ivory foot upon the deck , and still know that i be there . and now i quit thee . thy hand!--met ! true art thou , lad , as the circumference to its centre . so : god for ever bless thee ; and if it come to that,--god for ever save thee , let what will befall . "
( ahab go ; pip step one step forward . )
" here he this instant stand ; i stand in his air,--but i be alone . now be even poor pip here i could endure it , but he be miss . pip ! pip ! ding , dong , ding ! who be see pip ? he must be up here ; let us try the door . what ? neither lock , nor bolt , nor bar ; and yet there be no opening it . it must be the spell ; he tell i to stay here : aye , and tell i this screw chair be mine . here , then , i will seat i , against the transom , in the ship 's full middle , all her keel and her three mast before i . here , our old sailor say , in their black seventy - four great admiral sometimes sit at table , and lord it over row of captain and lieutenant . ha ! what be this ? epaulet ! epaulet ! the epaulet all come crowd ! pass round the decanter ; glad to see ye ; fill up , monsieur ! what an odd feeling , now , when a black boy 's host to white man with gold lace upon their coats!--monsieurs , have ye see one pip?--a little negro lad , five foot high , hang - dog look , and cowardly ! jump from a whale - boat once;--seen he ? no ! well then , fill up again , captain , and let us drink shame upon all coward ! i name no name . shame upon they ! put one foot upon the table . shame upon all cowards.--hist ! above there , i hear ivory -- oh , master ! master ! i be indeed down - hearted when you walk over i . but here i will stay , though this stern strike rock ; and they bulge through ; and oyster come to join i . "
chapter 130
the hat .
and now that at the proper time and place , after so long and wide a preliminary cruise , ahab,--all other whaling water sweep -- seem to have chase his foe into an ocean - fold , to slay he the more securely there ; now , that he find himself hard by the very latitude and longitude where his tormenting wound have be inflict ; now that a vessel have be speak which on the very day precede have actually encounter moby dick;--and now that all his successive meeting with various ship contrastingly concur to show the demoniac indifference with which the white whale tear his hunter , whether sin or sin against ; now it be that there lurk a something in the old man 's eye , which it be hardly sufferable for feeble soul to see . as the unsetting polar star , which through the livelong , arctic , six month ' night sustain its pierce , steady , central gaze ; so ahab 's purpose now fixedly gleam down upon the constant midnight of the gloomy crew . it domineer above they so , that all their boding , doubt , misgiving , fear , be fain to hide beneath their soul , and not sprout forth a single spear or leaf .
in this foreshadow interval too , all humor , force or natural , vanish . stubb no more strove to raise a smile ; starbuck no more strove to check one . alike , joy and sorrow , hope and fear , seem ground to fine dust , and powder , for the time , in the clamp mortar of ahab 's iron soul . like machine , they dumbly move about the deck , ever conscious that the old man 's despot eye be on they .
but do you deeply scan he in his more secret confidential hour ; when he think no glance but one be on he ; then you would have see that even as ahab 's eye so awe the crew 's , the inscrutable parsee 's glance awe his ; or somehow , at least , in some wild way , at time affect it . such an add , gliding strangeness begin to invest the thin fedallah now ; such ceaseless shuddering shake he ; that the man look dubious at he ; half uncertain , as it seem , whether indeed he be a mortal substance , or else a tremulous shadow cast upon the deck by some unseen being 's body . and that shadow be always hover there . for not by night , even , have fedallah ever certainly be know to slumber , or go below . he would stand still for hour : but never sit or lean ; his wan but wondrous eye do plainly say -- we two watchman never rest .
nor , at any time , by night or day could the mariner now step upon the deck , unless ahab be before they ; either stand in his pivot - hole , or exactly pace the plank between two undeviating limits,--the main - mast and the mizen ; or else they see he stand in the cabin - scuttle,--his live foot advance upon the deck , as if to step ; his hat slouch heavily over his eye ; so that however motionless he stand , however the day and night be add on , that he have not swing in his hammock ; yet hide beneath that slouch hat , they could never tell unerringly whether , for all this , his eye be really close at time ; or whether he be still intently scan they ; no matter , though he stand so in the scuttle for a whole hour on the stretch , and the unheeded night - damp gather in bead of dew upon that stone - carve coat and hat . the clothe that the night have wet , the next day 's sunshine dry upon he ; and so , day after day , and night after night ; he go no more beneath the plank ; whatever he want from the cabin that thing he send for .
he eat in the same open air ; that be , his two only meals,--breakfast and dinner : supper he never touch ; nor reap his beard ; which darkly grew all gnarl , as unearthed root of tree blow over , which still grow idly on at naked base , though perish in the upper verdure . but though his whole life be now become one watch on deck ; and though the parsee 's mystic watch be without intermission as his own ; yet these two never seem to speak -- one man to the other -- unless at long interval some pass unmomentous matter make it necessary . though such a potent spell seem secretly to join the twain ; openly , and to the awe - strike crew , they seem pole - like asunder . if by day they chance to speak one word ; by night , dumb man be both , so far as concerned the slight verbal interchange . at time , for long hour , without a single hail , they stand far part in the starlight ; ahab in his scuttle , the parsee by the mainmast ; but still fixedly gaze upon each other ; as if in the parsee ahab see his forethrown shadow , in ahab the parsee his abandon substance .
and yet , somehow , do ahab -- in his own proper self , as daily , hourly , and every instant , commandingly reveal to his subordinates,--ahab seem an independent lord ; the parsee but his slave . still again both seem yoke together , and an unseen tyrant drive they ; the lean shade side the solid rib . for be this parsee what he may , all rib and keel be solid ahab .
at the first faint glimmering of the dawn , his iron voice be hear from aft,--"man the mast - heads!"--and all through the day , till after sunset and after twilight , the same voice every hour , at the striking of the helmsman 's bell , be heard--"what d'ye see?--sharp ! sharp ! "
but when three or four day have slide by , after meet the child - seek rachel ; and no spout have yet be see ; the monomaniac old man seem distrustful of his crew 's fidelity ; at least , of nearly all except the pagan harpooneer ; he seem to doubt , even , whether stubb and flask might not willingly overlook the sight he seek . but if these suspicion be really his , he sagaciously refrain from verbally express they , however his action might seem to hint they .
" i will have the first sight of the whale myself,"--he say . " aye ! ahab must have the doubloon ! and with his own hand he rig a nest of basketed bowline ; and send a hand aloft , with a single sheave block , to secure to the main - mast head , he receive the two end of the downward - reeve rope ; and attach one to his basket prepare a pin for the other end , in order to fasten it at the rail . this do , with that end yet in his hand and stand beside the pin , he look round upon his crew , sweep from one to the other ; pause his glance long upon daggoo , queequeg , tashtego ; but shun fedallah ; and then settle his firm rely eye upon the chief mate , said,--"take the rope , sir -- i give it into thy hand , starbuck . " then arrange his person in the basket , he give the word for they to hoist he to his perch , starbuck be the one who secure the rope at last ; and afterwards stand near it . and thus , with one hand cling round the royal mast , ahab gaze abroad upon the sea for mile and miles,--ahead , astern , this side , and that,--within the wide expand circle command at so great a height .
when in work with his hand at some lofty almost isolate place in the rigging , which chance to afford no foothold , the sailor at sea be hoist up to that spot , and sustain there by the rope ; under these circumstance , its fastened end on deck be always give in strict charge to some one man who have the special watch of it . because in such a wilderness of run rigging , whose various different relation aloft can not always be infallibly discern by what be see of they at the deck ; and when the deck - end of these rope be be every few minute cast down from the fastening , it would be but a natural fatality , if , unprovide with a constant watchman , the hoist sailor should by some carelessness of the crew be cast adrift and fall all swoop to the sea . so ahab 's proceeding in this matter be not unusual ; the only strange thing about they seem to be , that starbuck , almost the one only man who have ever venture to oppose he with anything in the slight degree approach to decision -- one of those too , whose faithfulness on the look - out he have seem to doubt somewhat;--it be strange , that this be the very man he should select for his watchman ; freely give his whole life into such an otherwise distrust person 's hand .
now , the first time ahab be perch aloft ; ere he have be there ten minute ; one of those red - bill savage sea - hawk which so often fly incommodiously close round the manned mast - head of whaleman in these latitude ; one of these bird come wheel and scream round his head in a maze of untrackably swift circling . then it dart a thousand foot straight up into the air ; then spiralize downward , and go eddying again round his head .
but with his gaze fix upon the dim and distant horizon , ahab seem not to mark this wild bird ; nor , indeed , would any one else have mark it much , it be no uncommon circumstance ; only now almost the least heedful eye seem to see some sort of cunning meaning in almost every sight .
" your hat , your hat , sir ! " suddenly cry the sicilian seaman , who be post at the mizen - mast - head , stand directly behind ahab , though somewhat low than his level , and with a deep gulf of air divide they .
but already the sable wing be before the old man 's eye ; the long hooked bill at his head : with a scream , the black hawk dart away with his prize .
an eagle fly thrice round tarquin 's head , remove his cap to replace it , and thereupon tanaquil , his wife , declare that tarquin would be king of rome . but only by the replacing of the cap be that oman account good . ahab 's hat be never restore ; the wild hawk fly on and on with it ; far in advance of the prow : and at last disappear ; while from the point of that disappearance , a minute black spot be dimly discern , fall from that vast height into the sea .
chapter 131
the pequod meet the delight .
the intense pequod sail on ; the roll wave and day go by ; the life - buoy - coffin still lightly swing ; and another ship , most miserably misname the delight , be descry . as she draw nigh , all eye be fix upon her broad beam , call shear , which , in some whaling - ship , cross the quarter - deck at the height of eight or nine foot ; serve to carry the spare , unrigged , or disabled boat .
upon the stranger 's shear be beheld the shatter , white rib , and some few splinter plank , of what have once be a whale - boat ; but you now see through this wreck , as plainly as you see through the peel , half - unhinged , and bleach skeleton of a horse .
" hast see the white whale ? "
" look ! " reply the hollow - cheeked captain from his taffrail ; and with his trumpet he point to the wreck .
" hast kill he ? "
" the harpoon be not yet forge that ever will do that , " answer the other , sadly glance upon a rounded hammock on the deck , whose gather side some noiseless sailor be busy in sew together .
" not forge ! " and snatch perth 's levelled iron from the crotch , ahab hold it out , exclaiming--"look ye , nantucketer ; here in this hand i hold his death ! temper in blood , and temper by lightning be these barb ; and i swear to temper they triply in that hot place behind the fin , where the white whale most feel his accursed life ! "
" then god keep thee , old man -- see'st thou that"--pointe to the hammock--"i bury but one of five stout man , who be alive only yesterday ; but be dead ere night . only that one i bury ; the rest be bury before they die ; you sail upon their tomb . " then turn to his crew--"are ye ready there ? place the plank then on the rail , and lift the body ; so , then -- oh ! god"--advance towards the hammock with uplifted hands--"may the resurrection and the life-- "
" brace forward ! up helm ! " cry ahab like lightning to his man .
but the suddenly start pequod be not quick enough to escape the sound of the splash that the corpse soon make as it strike the sea ; not so quick , indeed , but that some of the fly bubble might have sprinkle her hull with their ghostly baptism .
as ahab now glide from the dejected delight , the strange life - buoy hang at the pequod 's stern come into conspicuous relief .
" ha ! yonder ! look yonder , man ! " cry a foreboding voice in her wake . " in vain , oh , ye stranger , ye fly our sad burial ; ye but turn we your taffrail to show we your coffin ! "
chapter 132
the symphony .
it be a clear steel - blue day . the firmament of air and sea be hardly separable in that all - pervade azure ; only , the pensive air be transparently pure and soft , with a woman 's look , and the robust and man - like sea heave with long , strong , linger swell , as samson 's chest in his sleep .
hither , and thither , on high , glide the snow - white wing of small , unspeckled bird ; these be the gentle thought of the feminine air ; but to and fro in the deep , far down in the bottomless blue , rush mighty leviathan , sword - fish , and shark ; and these be the strong , troubled , murderous thinking of the masculine sea .
but though thus contrast within , the contrast be only in shade and shadow without ; those two seem one ; it be only the sex , as it be , that distinguish they .
aloft , like a royal czar and king , the sun seem give this gentle air to this bold and rolling sea ; even as bride to groom . and at the girdle line of the horizon , a soft and tremulous motion -- most see here at the equator -- denote the fond , throb trust , the love alarm , with which the poor bride give her bosom away .
tie up and twisted ; gnarl and knot with wrinkle ; haggardly firm and unyielding ; his eye glow like coal , that still glow in the ash of ruin ; untottere ahab stand forth in the clearness of the morn ; lift his splintered helmet of a brow to the fair girl 's forehead of heaven .
oh , immortal infancy , and innocency of the azure ! invisible wing creature that frolic all round we ! sweet childhood of air and sky ! how oblivious be ye of old ahab 's close - coil woe ! but so have i see little miriam and martha , laugh - eyed elf , heedlessly gambol around their old sire ; sport with the circle of sing lock which grow on the marge of that burn - out crater of his brain .
slowly cross the deck from the scuttle , ahab lean over the side and watch how his shadow in the water sink and sink to his gaze , the more and the more that he strove to pierce the profundity . but the lovely aroma in that enchant air do at last seem to dispel , for a moment , the cankerous thing in his soul . that glad , happy air , that winsome sky , do at last stroke and caress he ; the step - mother world , so long cruel -- forbid -- now throw affectionate arm round his stubborn neck , and do seem to joyously sob over he , as if over one , that however wilful and err , she could yet find it in her heart to save and to bless . from beneath his slouched hat ahab drop a tear into the sea ; nor do all the pacific contain such wealth as that one wee drop .
starbuck see the old man ; see he , how he heavily lean over the side ; and he seem to hear in his own true heart the measureless sobbing that steal out of the centre of the serenity around . careful not to touch he , or be notice by he , he yet draw near to he , and stand there .
ahab turn .
" starbuck ! "
" sir . "
" oh , starbuck ! it be a mild , mild wind , and a mild look sky . on such a day -- very much such a sweetness as this -- i strike my first whale -- a boy - harpooneer of eighteen ! forty -- forty -- forty year ago!--ago ! forty year of continual whaling ! forty year of privation , and peril , and storm - time ! forty year on the pitiless sea ! for forty year have ahab forsake the peaceful land , for forty year to make war on the horror of the deep ! aye and yes , starbuck , out of those forty year i have not spend three ashore . when i think of this life i have lead ; the desolation of solitude it have be ; the masone , wall - town of a captain 's exclusiveness , which admit but small entrance to any sympathy from the green country without -- oh , weariness ! heaviness ! guinea - coast slavery of solitary command!--when i think of all this ; only half - suspect , not so keenly know to i before -- and how for forty year i have feed upon dry salt fare -- fit emblem of the dry nourishment of my soil!--when the poor landsman have have fresh fruit to his daily hand , and break the world 's fresh bread to my mouldy crust -- away , whole ocean away , from that young girl - wife i wed past fifty , and sail for cape horn the next day , leave but one dent in my marriage pillow -- wife ? wife?--rather a widow with her husband alive ! aye , i widow that poor girl when i marry she , starbuck ; and then , the madness , the frenzy , the boiling blood and the smoking brow , with which , for a thousand lowering old ahab have furiously , foamingly chase his prey -- more a demon than a man!--aye , aye ! what a forty year ' fool -- fool -- old fool , have old ahab be ! why this strife of the chase ? why weary , and palsy the arm at the oar , and the iron , and the lance ? how the rich or well be ahab now ? behold . oh , starbuck ! be it not hard , that with this weary load i bear , one poor leg should have be snatch from under i ? here , brush this old hair aside ; it blind i , that i seem to weep . lock so grey do never grow but from out some ash ! but do i look very old , so very , very old , starbuck ? i feel deadly faint , bow , and hump , as though i be adam , stagger beneath the pile century since paradise . god ! god ! god!--crack my heart!--stave my brain!--mockery ! mockery ! bitter , bite mockery of grey hair , have i live enough joy to wear ye ; and seem and feel thus intolerably old ? close ! stand close to i , starbuck ; let i look into a human eye ; it be well than to gaze into sea or sky ; well than to gaze upon god . by the green land ; by the bright hearth - stone ! this be the magic glass , man ; i see my wife and my child in thine eye . no , no ; stay on board , on board!--lower not when i do ; when brand ahab give chase to moby dick . that hazard shall not be thine . no , no ! not with the far away home i see in that eye ! "
" oh , my captain ! my captain ! noble soul ! grand old heart , after all ! why should any one give chase to that hat fish ! away with i ! let we fly these deadly water ! let we home ! wife and child , too , be starbuck's -- wife and child of his brotherly , sisterly , play - fellow youth ; even as thine , sir , be the wife and child of thy loving , longing , paternal old age ! away ! let we away!--this instant let i alter the course ! how cheerily , how hilariously , o my captain , would we bowl on our way to see old nantucket again ! i think , sir , they have some such mild blue day , even as this , in nantucket . "
" they have , they have . i have see they -- some summer day in the morning . about this time -- yes , it be his noon nap now -- the boy vivaciously wake ; sit up in bed ; and his mother tell he of i , of cannibal old i ; how i be abroad upon the deep , but will yet come back to dance he again . "
" ' tis my mary , my mary herself ! she promise that my boy , every morning , should be carry to the hill to catch the first glimpse of his father 's sail ! yes , yes ! no more ! it be do ! we head for nantucket ! come , my captain , study out the course , and let we away ! see , see ! the boy 's face from the window ! the boy 's hand on the hill ! "
but ahab 's glance be avert ; like a blighted fruit tree he shake , and cast his last , cindere apple to the soil .
" what be it , what nameless , inscrutable , unearthly thing be it ; what cozening , hidden lord and master , and cruel , remorseless emperor command i ; that against all natural loving and longing , i so keep push , and crowding , and jam myself on all the time ; recklessly make i ready to do what in my own proper , natural heart , i durst not so much as dare ? be ahab , ahab ? be it i , god , or who , that lift this arm ? but if the great sun move not of himself ; but be as an errand - boy in heaven ; nor one single star can revolve , but by some invisible power ; how then can this one small heart beat ; this one small brain think thought ; unless god do that beating , do that thinking , do that living , and not i. by heaven , man , we be turn round and round in this world , like yonder windlass , and fate be the handspike . and all the time , lo ! that smile sky , and this unsounded sea ! look ! see yon albicore ! who put it into he to chase and fang that fly - fish ? where do murderer go , man ! who be to doom , when the judge himself be drag to the bar ? but it be a mild , mild wind , and a mild look sky ; and the air smell now , as if it blow from a far - away meadow ; they have be make hay somewhere under the slope of the andes , starbuck , and the mower be sleep among the new - mow hay . sleep ? aye , toil we how we may , we all sleep at last on the field . sleep ? aye , and rust amid greenness ; as last year 's scythe fling down , and leave in the half - cut swath -- starbuck ! "
but blanch to a corpse 's hue with despair , the mate have steal away .
ahab cross the deck to gaze over on the other side ; but start at two reflect , fix eye in the water there . fedallah be motionlessly lean over the same rail .
chapter 133
the chase -- first day .
that night , in the mid - watch , when the old man -- as his will not at interval -- step forth from the scuttle in which he lean , and go to his pivot - hole , he suddenly thrust out his face fiercely , snuff up the sea air as a sagacious ship 's dog will , in draw nigh to some barbarous isle . he declare that a whale must be near . soon that peculiar odor , sometimes to a great distance give forth by the live sperm whale , be palpable to all the watch ; nor be any mariner surprised when , after inspect the compass , and then the dog - vane , and then ascertain the precise bearing of the odor as nearly as possible , ahab rapidly order the ship 's course to be slightly alter , and the sail to be shorten .
the acute policy dictate these movement be sufficiently vindicate at daybreak , by the sight of a long sleek on the sea directly and lengthwise ahead , smooth as oil , and resemble in the pleated watery wrinkles border it , the polished metallic - like mark of some swift tide - rip , at the mouth of a deep , rapid stream .
" man the mast - head ! call all hand ! "
thunder with the butt of three club handspike on the forecastle deck , daggoo rouse the sleeper with such judgment clap that they seem to exhale from the scuttle , so instantaneously do they appear with their clothe in their hand .
" what d'ye see ? " cry ahab , flatten his face to the sky .
" nothing , nothing sir ! " be the sound hail down in reply .
" t'gallant sails!--stunsail ! alow and aloft , and on both side ! "
all sail be set , he now cast loose the life - line , reserve for sway he to the main royal - mast head ; and in a few moment they be hoist he thither , when , while but two third of the way aloft , and while peer ahead through the horizontal vacancy between the main - top - sail and top - gallant - sail , he raise a gull - like cry in the air . " there she blows!--there she blow ! a hump like a snow - hill ! it be moby dick ! "
fire by the cry which seem simultaneously take up by the three look - out , the man on deck rush to the rigging to behold the famous whale they have so long be pursue . ahab have now gain his final perch , some foot above the other look - out , tashtego stand just beneath he on the cap of the top - gallant - mast , so that the indian 's head be almost on a level with ahab 's heel . from this height the whale be now see some mile or so ahead , at every roll of the sea reveal his high sparkling hump , and regularly jet his silent spout into the air . to the credulous mariner it seem the same silent spout they have so long ago beheld in the moonlit atlantic and indian oceans .
" and do none of ye see it before ? " cry ahab , hail the perch man all around he .
" i see he almost that same instant , sir , that captain ahab do , and i cry out , " say tashtego .
" not the same instant ; not the same -- no , the doubloon be mine , fate reserve the doubloon for i . i only ; none of ye could have raise the white whale first . there she blows!--there she blows!--there she blow ! there again!--there again ! " he cry , in long - draw , lingering , methodic tone , attune to the gradual prolonging of the whale 's visible jet . " he be go to sound ! in stunsail ! down top - gallant - sail ! stand by three boat . mr. starbuck , remember , stay on board , and keep the ship . helm there ! luff , luff a point ! so ; steady , man , steady ! there go fluke ! no , no ; only black water ! all ready the boat there ? stand by , stand by ! low i , mr. starbuck ; low , lower,--quick , quick ! " and he slide through the air to the deck .
" he be head straight to leeward , sir , " cry stubb , " right away from we ; can not have see the ship yet . "
" be dumb , man ! stand by the brace ! hard down the helm!--brace up ! shiver her!--shiver her!--so ; well that ! boat , boat ! "
soon all the boat but starbuck 's be drop ; all the boat - sail set -- all the paddle ply ; with ripple swiftness , shoot to leeward ; and ahab head the onset . a pale , death - glimmer light up fedallah 's sunken eye ; a hideous motion gnaw his mouth .
like noiseless nautilus shell , their light prow speed through the sea ; but only slowly they near the foe . as they near he , the ocean grow still more smooth ; seem draw a carpet over its wave ; seem a noon - meadow , so serenely it spread . at length the breathless hunter come so nigh his seemingly unsuspecting prey , that his entire dazzle hump be distinctly visible , slide along the sea as if an isolated thing , and continually set in a revolving ring of fine , fleecy , greenish foam . he see the vast , involve wrinkle of the slightly project head beyond . before it , far out on the soft turkish - rugge water , go the glisten white shadow from his broad , milky forehead , a musical rippling playfully accompany the shade ; and behind , the blue water interchangeably flow over into the move valley of his steady wake ; and on either hand bright bubble arise and dance by his side . but these be break again by the light toe of hundred of gay fowl softly feather the sea , alternate with their fitful flight ; and like to some flag - staff rise from the paint hull of an argosy , the tall but shattered pole of a recent lance project from the white whale 's back ; and at interval one of the cloud of soft - toed fowl hovering , and to and fro skim like a canopy over the fish , silently perch and rock on this pole , the long tail feather stream like pennon .
a gentle joyousness -- a mighty mildness of repose in swiftness , invest the gliding whale . not the white bull jupiter swim away with ravished europa cling to his graceful horn ; his lovely , leer eye sideways intent upon the maid ; with smooth bewitching fleetness , ripple straight for the nuptial bower in crete ; not jove , not that great majesty supreme ! do surpass the glorify white whale as he so divinely swam .
on each soft side -- coincident with the part swell , that but once leave he , then flow so wide away -- on each bright side , the whale shed off enticing . no wonder there have be some among the hunter who namelessly transport and allure by all this serenity , have venture to assail it ; but have fatally find that quietude but the vesture of tornado . yet calm , entice calm , oh , whale ! thou glidest on , to all who for the first time eye thee , no matter how many in that same way thou may'st have bejuggle and destroy before .
and thus , through the serene tranquillity of the tropical sea , among wave whose hand - clapping be suspend by exceed rapture , moby dick move on , still withhold from sight the full terror of his submerge trunk , entirely hide the wrench hideousness of his jaw . but soon the fore part of he slowly rise from the water ; for an instant his whole marbleized body form a high arch , like virginia 's natural bridge , and warningly wave his bannere fluke in the air , the grand god reveal himself , sound , and go out of sight . hoveringly halting , and dip on the wing , the white sea - fowl longingly linger over the agitated pool that he leave .
with oar apeak , and paddle down , the sheet of their sail adrift , the three boat now stilly float , await moby dick 's reappearance .
" an hour , " say ahab , stand root in his boat 's stern ; and he gaze beyond the whale 's place , towards the dim blue space and wide wooing vacancy to leeward . it be only an instant ; for again his eye seem whirl round in his head as he sweep the watery circle . the breeze now freshen ; the sea begin to swell .
" the birds!--the bird ! " cry tashtego .
in long indian file , as when heron take wing , the white bird be now all fly towards ahab 's boat ; and when within a few yard begin flutter over the water there , wheel round and round , with joyous , expectant cry . their vision be keener than man 's ; ahab could discover no sign in the sea . but suddenly as he peer down and down into its depth , he profoundly see a white living spot no big than a white weasel , with wonderful celerity uprising , and magnifying as it rise , till it turn , and then there be plainly reveal two long crooked row of white , glisten tooth , float up from the undiscoverable bottom . it be moby dick 's open mouth and scroll jaw ; his vast , shadowed bulk still half blend with the blue of the sea . the glitter mouth yawn beneath the boat like an open - doore marble tomb ; and give one sidelong sweep with his steering oar , ahab whirl the craft aside from this tremendous apparition . then , call upon fedallah to change place with he , go forward to the bow , and seize perth 's harpoon , command his crew to grasp their oar and stand by to stern .
now , by reason of this timely spin round the boat upon its axis , its bow , by anticipation , be make to face the whale 's head while yet under water . but as if perceive this stratagem , moby dick , with that malicious intelligence ascribe to he , sidelingly transplant himself , as it be , in an instant , shoot his pleated head lengthwise beneath the boat .
through and through ; through every plank and each rib , it thrill for an instant , the whale obliquely lie on his back , in the manner of a bite shark , slowly and feelingly take its bow full within his mouth , so that the long , narrow , scroll low jaw curl high up into the open air , and one of the tooth catch in a row - lock . the bluish pearl - white of the inside of the jaw be within six inch of ahab 's head , and reach high than that . in this attitude the white whale now shake the slight cedar as a mildly cruel cat her mouse . with unastonished eye fedallah gaze , and cross his arm ; but the tiger - yellow crew be tumble over each other 's head to gain the uttermost stern .
and now , while both elastic gunwale be spring in and out , as the whale dally with the doom craft in this devilish way ; and from his body be submerge beneath the boat , he could not be dart at from the bow , for the bow be almost inside of he , as it be ; and while the other boat involuntarily pause , as before a quick crisis impossible to withstand , then it be that monomaniac ahab , furious with this tantalize vicinity of his foe , which place he all alive and helpless in the very jaw he hat ; frenzy with all this , he seize the long bone with his naked hand , and wildly strove to wrench it from its gripe . as now he thus vainly strove , the jaw slip from he ; the frail gunwale bent in , collapse , and snap , as both jaw , like an enormous shear , slide further aft , bit the craft completely in twain , and lock themselves fast again in the sea , midway between the two float wreck . these float aside , the broken end droop , the crew at the stern - wreck clinging to the gunwale , and strive to hold fast to the oar to lash they across .
at that preluding moment , ere the boat be yet snap , ahab , the first to perceive the whale 's intent , by the crafty upraising of his head , a movement that loose his hold for the time ; at that moment his hand have make one final effort to push the boat out of the bite . but only slip far into the whale 's mouth , and tilt over sideways as it slip , the boat have shake off his hold on the jaw ; spill he out of it , as he lean to the push ; and so he fall flat - face upon the sea .
ripplingly withdraw from his prey , moby dick now lie at a little distance , vertically thrust his oblong white head up and down in the billow ; and at the same time slowly revolve his whole spindle body ; so that when his vast wrinkle forehead rise -- some twenty or more foot out of the water -- the now rise swell , with all their confluent wave , dazzlingly break against it ; vindictively toss their shiver spray still higher into the air . * so , in a gale , the but half baffle channel billow only recoil from the base of the eddystone , triumphantly to overleap its summit with their scud .
* this motion be peculiar to the sperm whale . it receive its designation ( pitchpole ) from its being liken to that preliminary up - and - down poise of the whale - lance , in the exercise call pitchpole , previously describe . by this motion the whale must well and most comprehensively view whatever object may be encircle he .
but soon resume his horizontal attitude , moby dick swam swiftly round and round the wrecked crew ; sideways churn the water in his vengeful wake , as if lash himself up to still another and more deadly assault . the sight of the splintered boat seem to madden he , as the blood of grape and mulberry cast before antiochus 's elephant in the book of maccabees . meanwhile ahab half smother in the foam of the whale 's insolent tail , and too much of a cripple to swim,--though he could still keep afloat , even in the heart of such a whirlpool as that ; helpless ahab 's head be see , like a tossed bubble which the least chance shock might burst . from the boat 's fragmentary stern , fedallah incuriously and mildly eyed he ; the cling crew , at the other drift end , could not succor he ; more than enough be it for they to look to themselves . for so revolvingly appalling be the white whale 's aspect , and so planetarily swift the ever - contracting circle he make , that he seem horizontally swoop upon they . and though the other boat , unharmed , still hover hard by ; still they dared not pull into the eddy to strike , lest that should be the signal for the instant destruction of the jeopardized castaways , ahab and all ; nor in that case could they themselves hope to escape . with strain eye , then , they remain on the outer edge of the direful zone , whose centre have now become the old man 's head .
meantime , from the beginning all this have be descry from the ship 's mast head ; and square her yard , she have bear down upon the scene ; and be now so nigh , that ahab in the water hail her!--"sail on the"--but that moment a break sea dash on he from moby dick , and whelm he for the time . but struggle out of it again , and chance to rise on a tower crest , he shouted,--"sail on the whale!--drive he off ! "
the pequod 's prow be point ; and break up the charmed circle , she effectually part the white whale from his victim . as he sullenly swam off , the boat fly to the rescue .
drag into stubb 's boat with blood - shot , blind eye , the white brine cake in his wrinkle ; the long tension of ahab 's bodily strength do crack , and helplessly he yield to his body 's doom : for a time , lie all crush in the bottom of stubb 's boat , like one tread under foot of herd of elephant . far inland , nameless wail come from he , as desolate sound from out ravine .
but this intensity of his physical prostration do but so much the more abbreviate it . in an instant 's compass , great heart sometimes condense to one deep pang , the sum total of those shallow pain kindly diffuse through feebler man 's whole life . and so , such heart , though summary in each one suffering ; still , if the god decree it , in their life - time aggregate a whole age of woe , wholly make up of instantaneous intensity ; for even in their pointless centre , those noble nature contain the entire circumference of inferior soul .
" the harpoon , " say ahab , half way rise , and draggingly lean on one bend arm--"is it safe ? "
" aye , sir , for it be not dart ; this be it , " say stubb , show it .
" lay it before me;--any miss man ? "
" one , two , three , four , five;--there be five oar , sir , and here be five man . "
" that be good.--help i , man ; i wish to stand . so , so , i see he ! there ! there ! go to leeward still ; what a leap spout!--hand off from i ! the eternal sap run up in ahab 's bone again ! set the sail ; out oar ; the helm ! "
it be often the case that when a boat be stove , its crew , be pick up by another boat , help to work that second boat ; and the chase be thus continue with what be call double - banked oar . it be thus now . but the add power of the boat do not equal the add power of the whale , for he seem to have treble - bank his every fin ; swim with a velocity which plainly show , that if now , under these circumstance , push on , the chase would prove an indefinitely prolong , if not a hopeless one ; nor could any crew endure for so long a period , such an unintermitted , intense straining at the oar ; a thing barely tolerable only in some one brief vicissitude . the ship itself , then , as it sometimes happen , offer the most promising intermediate mean of overtake the chase . accordingly , the boat now make for she , and be soon sway up to their crane -- the two part of the wrecked boat having be previously secure by she -- and then hoist everything to her side , and stack her canvas high up , and sideway outstretche it with stun - sail , like the double - jointed wing of an albatross ; the pequod bear down in the leeward wake of moby - dick . at the well know , methodic interval , the whale 's glitter spout be regularly announce from the manned mast - head ; and when he would be report as just go down , ahab would take the time , and then pace the deck , binnacle - watch in hand , so soon as the last second of the allotted hour expire , his voice be heard.--"whose be the doubloon now ? d'ye see he ? " and if the reply be , no , sir ! straightway he command they to lift he to his perch . in this way the day wear on ; ahab , now aloft and motionless ; anon , unrestingly pace the plank .
as he be thus walk , utter no sound , except to hail the man aloft , or to bid they hoist a sail still high , or to spread one to a still great breadth -- thus to and fro pacing , beneath his slouch hat , at every turn he pass his own wrecked boat , which have be drop upon the quarter - deck , and lie there reverse ; broken bow to shattered stern . at last he pause before it ; and as in an already over - clouded sky fresh troop of cloud will sometimes sail across , so over the old man 's face there now steal some such add gloom as this .
stubb see he pause ; and perhaps intend , not vainly , though , to evince his own unabated fortitude , and thus keep up a valiant place in his captain 's mind , he advance , and eye the wreck exclaimed--"the thistle the ass refuse ; it prick his mouth too keenly , sir ; ha ! ha ! "
" what soulless thing be this that laugh before a wreck ? man , man ! do i not know thee brave as fearless fire ( and as mechanical ) i could swear thou wert a poltroon . groan nor laugh should be hear before a wreck . "
" aye , sir , " say starbuck draw near , " ' tis a solemn sight ; an omen , and an ill one . "
" omen ? omen?--the dictionary ! if the god think to speak outright to man , they will honourably speak outright ; not shake their head , and give an old wife ' darkle hint.--begone ! ye two be the opposite pole of one thing ; starbuck be stubb reversed , and stubb be starbuck ; and ye two be all mankind ; and ahab stand alone among the million of the peopled earth , nor god nor man his neighbor ! cold , cold -- i shiver!--how now ? aloft there ! d'ye see he ? sing out for every spout , though he spout ten time a second ! "
the day be nearly do ; only the hem of his golden robe be rustle . soon , it be almost dark , but the look - out man still remain unset .
" can not see the spout now , sir;--too dark"--crie a voice from the air .
" how heading when last see ? "
" as before , sir,--straight to leeward . "
" good ! he will travel slow now ' tis night . down royal and top - gallant stun - sail , mr. starbuck . we must not run over he before morning ; he be make a passage now , and may heave - to a while . helm there ! keep she full before the wind!--aloft ! come down!--mr . stubb , send a fresh hand to the fore - mast head , and see it man till morning . "--then advance towards the doubloon in the main - mast--"men , this gold be mine , for i earn it ; but i shall let it abide here till the white whale be dead ; and then , whosoever of ye first raise he , upon the day he shall be kill , this gold be that man 's ; and if on that day i shall again raise he , then , ten time its sum shall be divide among all of ye ! away now!--the deck be thine , sir ! "
and so say , he place himself half way within the scuttle , and slouch his hat , stand there till dawn , except when at interval rouse himself to see how the night wear on .
chapter 134
the chase -- second day .
at day - break , the three mast - head be punctually manned afresh .
" d'ye see he ? " cry ahab after allow a little space for the light to spread .
" see nothing , sir . "
" turn up all hand and make sail ! he travel fast than i think for;--the top - gallant sails!--aye , they should have be keep on she all night . but no matter--'tis but rest for the rush . "
here be it say , that this pertinacious pursuit of one particular whale , continue through day into night , and through night into day , be a thing by no mean unprecedented in the south sea fishery . for such be the wonderful skill , prescience of experience , and invincible confidence acquire by some great natural genius among the nantucket commander ; that from the simple observation of a whale when last descry , they will , under certain give circumstance , pretty accurately foretell both the direction in which he will continue to swim for a time , while out of sight , as well as his probable rate of progression during that period . and , in these case , somewhat as a pilot , when about lose sight of a coast , whose general trend he well know , and which he desire shortly to return to again , but at some further point ; like as this pilot stand by his compass , and take the precise bearing of the cape at present visible , in order the more certainly to hit aright the remote , unseen headland , eventually to be visit : so do the fisherman , at his compass , with the whale ; for after be chase , and diligently mark , through several hour of daylight , then , when night obscure the fish , the creature 's future wake through the darkness be almost as establish to the sagacious mind of the hunter , as the pilot 's coast be to he . so that to this hunter 's wondrous skill , the proverbial evanescence of a thing writ in water , a wake , be to all desire purpose well nigh as reliable as the steadfast land . and as the mighty iron leviathan of the modern railway be so familiarly know in its every pace , that , with watch in their hand , man time his rate as doctor that of a baby 's pulse ; and lightly say of it , the up train or the down train will reach such or such a spot , at such or such an hour ; even so , almost , there be occasion when these nantucketers time that other leviathan of the deep , accord to the observed humor of his speed ; and say to themselves , so many hour hence this whale will have go two hundred mile , will have about reach this or that degree of latitude or longitude . but to render this acuteness at all successful in the end , the wind and the sea must be the whaleman 's ally ; for of what present avail to the becalm or windbound mariner be the skill that assure he he be exactly ninety - three league and a quarter from his port ? inferable from these statement , be many collateral subtile matter touch the chase of whale .
the ship tear on ; leave such a furrow in the sea as when a cannon - ball , missent , become a plough - share and turn up the level field .
" by salt and hemp ! " cry stubb , " but this swift motion of the deck creep up one 's leg and tingle at the heart . this ship and i be two brave fellows!--ha , ha ! some one take i up , and launch i , spine - wise , on the sea,--for by live - oak ! my spine be a keel . ha , ha ! we go the gait that leave no dust behind ! "
" there she blow -- she blows!--she blows!--right ahead ! " be now the mast - head cry .
" aye , aye ! " cry stubb , " i know it -- ye can not escape -- blow on and split your spout , o whale ! the mad fiend himself be after ye ! blow your trump -- blister your lungs!--ahab will dam off your blood , as a miller shut his watergate upon the stream ! "
and stubb do but speak out for well nigh all that crew . the frenzy of the chase have by this time work they bubblingly up , like old wine work anew . whatever pale fear and foreboding some of they might have feel before ; these be not only now keep out of sight through the grow awe of ahab , but they be break up , and on all side rout , as timid prairie hare that scatter before the bound bison . the hand of fate have snatch all their soul ; and by the stir peril of the previous day ; the rack of the past night 's suspense ; the fix , unfearing , blind , reckless way in which their wild craft go plunge towards its fly mark ; by all these thing , their heart be bowl along . the wind that make great belly of their sail , and rush the vessel on by arm invisible as irresistible ; this seem the symbol of that unseen agency which so enslave they to the race .
they be one man , not thirty . for as the one ship that hold they all ; though it be put together of all contrast thing -- oak , and maple , and pine wood ; iron , and pitch , and hemp -- yet all these run into each other in the one concrete hull , which shoot on its way , both balance and direct by the long central keel ; even so , all the individuality of the crew , this man 's valor , that man 's fear ; guilt and guiltiness , all variety be weld into oneness , and be all direct to that fatal goal which ahab their one lord and keel do point to .
the rigging live . the mast - head , like the top of tall palm , be outspreadingly tufte with arm and leg . cling to a spar with one hand , some reach forth the other with impatient waving ; other , shade their eye from the vivid sunlight , sit far out on the rock yard ; all the spar in full bearing of mortal , ready and ripe for their fate . ah ! how they still strove through that infinite blueness to seek out the thing that might destroy they !
" why sing ye not out for he , if ye see he ? " cry ahab , when , after the lapse of some minute since the first cry , no more have be hear . " sway i up , man ; ye have be deceive ; not moby dick cast one odd jet that way , and then disappear . "
it be even so ; in their headlong eagerness , the man have mistake some other thing for the whale - spout , as the event itself soon prove ; for hardly have ahab reach his perch ; hardly be the rope belay to its pin on deck , when he strike the key - note to an orchestra , that make the air vibrate as with the combined discharge of rifle . the triumphant halloo of thirty buckskin lung be hear , as -- much near to the ship than the place of the imaginary jet , less than a mile ahead -- moby dick bodily burst into view ! for not by any calm and indolent spouting ; not by the peaceable gush of that mystic fountain in his head , do the white whale now reveal his vicinity ; but by the far more wondrous phenomenon of breach . rise with his utmost velocity from the furth depth , the sperm whale thus boom his entire bulk into the pure element of air , and pile up a mountain of dazzle foam , show his place to the distance of seven mile and more . in those moment , the tear , enraged wave he shake off , seem his mane ; in some case , this breach be his act of defiance .
" there she breach ! there she breach ! " be the cry , as in his immeasurable bravado the white whale toss himself salmon - like to heaven . so suddenly see in the blue plain of the sea , and relieve against the still bluer margin of the sky , the spray that he raise , for the moment , intolerably glitter and glare like a glaci ; and stand there gradually fade and fade away from its first sparkling intensity , to the dim mistiness of an advance shower in a vale .
" aye , breach your last to the sun , moby dick ! " cry ahab , " thy hour and thy harpoon be at hand!--down ! down all of ye , but one man at the fore . the boats!--stand by ! "
unmindful of the tedious rope - ladder of the shroud , the man , like shoot star , slide to the deck , by the isolate backstay and halyard ; while ahab , less dartingly , but still rapidly be drop from his perch .
" low away , " he cry , so soon as he have reach his boat -- a spare one , rig the afternoon previous . " mr. starbuck , the ship be thine -- keep away from the boat , but keep near they . low , all ! "
as if to strike a quick terror into they , by this time be the first assailant himself , moby dick have turn , and be now come for the three crew . ahab 's boat be central ; and cheer his man , he tell they he would take the whale head - and - head,--that be , pull straight up to his forehead,--a not uncommon thing ; for when within a certain limit , such a course exclude the come onset from the whale 's sidelong vision . but ere that close limit be gain , and while yet all three boat be plain as the ship 's three mast to his eye ; the white whale churn himself into furious speed , almost in an instant as it be , rush among the boat with open jaw , and a lash tail , offer appal battle on every side ; and heedless of the iron dart at he from every boat , seem only intent on annihilate each separate plank of which those boat be make . but skilfully manoeuvre , incessantly wheel like train charger in the field ; the boat for a while elude he ; though , at time , but by a plank 's breadth ; while all the time , ahab 's unearthly slogan tear every other cry but his to shred .
but at last in his untraceable evolution , the white whale so cross and recrosse , and in a thousand way entangle the slack of the three line now fast to he , that they foreshorten , and , of themselves , warp the devoted boat towards the plant iron in he ; though now for a moment the whale draw aside a little , as if to rally for a more tremendous charge . seize that opportunity , ahab first pay out more line : and then be rapidly haul and jerk in upon it again -- hop that way to disencumber it of some snarl -- when lo!--a sight more savage than the embattle tooth of shark !
catch and twisted -- corkscrew in the maze of the line , loose harpoon and lance , with all their bristling barb and point , came flash and dripping up to the chock in the bow of ahab 's boat . only one thing could be do . seize the boat - knife , he critically reach within -- through -- and then , without -- the ray of steel ; drag in the line beyond , pass it , inboard , to the bowsman , and then , twice sunder the rope near the chock -- drop the intercepted fagot of steel into the sea ; and be all fast again . that instant , the white whale make a sudden rush among the remain tangle of the other line ; by so do , irresistibly drag the more involved boat of stubb and flask towards his fluke ; dash they together like two roll husk on a surf - beat beach , and then , dive down into the sea , disappear in a boiling maelstrom , in which , for a space , the odorous cedar chip of the wreck dance round and round , like the grated nutmeg in a swiftly stir bowl of punch .
while the two crew be yet circle in the water , reach out after the revolve line - tub , oar , and other float furniture , while aslope little flask bob up and down like an empty vial , twitch his leg upwards to escape the dread jaw of shark ; and stubb be lustily sing out for some one to ladle he up ; and while the old man 's line -- now part -- admit of his pull into the creamy pool to rescue whom he could;--in that wild simultaneousness of a thousand concreted perils,--ahab 's yet unstricken boat seem draw up towards heaven by invisible wires,--as , arrow - like , shoot perpendicularly from the sea , the white whale dash his broad forehead against its bottom , and send it , turn over and over , into the air ; till it fall again -- gunwale downward -- and ahab and his man struggle out from under it , like seal from a sea - side cave .
the first uprising momentum of the whale -- modify its direction as he strike the surface -- involuntarily launch he along it , to a little distance from the centre of the destruction he have make ; and with his back to it , he now lie for a moment slowly feel with his fluke from side to side ; and whenever a stray oar , bit of plank , the least chip or crumb of the boat touch his skin , his tail swiftly draw back , and come sideways smite the sea . but soon , as if satisfy that his work for that time be do , he push his pleated forehead through the ocean , and trail after he the intertangled line , continue his leeward way at a traveller 's methodic pace .
as before , the attentive ship having descry the whole fight , again come bear down to the rescue , and drop a boat , pick up the float mariner , tub , oar , and whatever else could be catch at , and safely land they on her deck . some sprain shoulder , wrist , and ankle ; livid contusion ; wrench harpoon and lance ; inextricable intricacy of rope ; shatter oar and plank ; all these be there ; but no fatal or even serious ill seem to have befall any one . as with fedallah the day before , so ahab be now find grimly cling to his boat 's break half , which afford a comparatively easy float ; nor do it so exhaust he as the previous day 's mishap .
but when he be help to the deck , all eye be fasten upon he ; as instead of stand by himself he still half - hang upon the shoulder of starbuck , who have thus far be the foremost to assist he . his ivory leg have be snap off , leave but one short sharp splinter .
" aye , aye , starbuck , ' tis sweet to lean sometimes , be the lean who he will ; and would old ahab have lean oftener than he have . "
" the ferrule have not stand , sir , " say the carpenter , now come up ; " i put good work into that leg . "
" but no bone break , sir , i hope , " say stubb with true concern .
" aye ! and all splinter to piece , stubb!--d'ye see it.--but even with a broken bone , old ahab be untouched ; and i account no live bone of mine one jot more i , than this dead one that be lose . nor white whale , nor man , nor fiend , can so much as graze old ahab in his own proper and inaccessible being . can any lead touch yonder floor , any mast scrape yonder roof?--aloft there ! which way ? "
" dead to leeward , sir . "
" up helm , then ; pile on the sail again , ship keeper ! down the rest of the spare boat and rig they -- mr. starbuck away , and muster the boat 's crew . "
" let i first help thee towards the bulwark , sir . "
" oh , oh , oh ! how this splinter gore i now ! accurse fate ! that the unconquerable captain in the soul should have such a craven mate ! "
" sir ? "
" my body , man , not thee . give i something for a cane -- there , that shiver lance will do . muster the man . surely i have not see he yet . by heaven it can not be!--missing?--quick ! call they all . "
the old man 's hint thought be true . upon muster the company , the parsee be not there .
" the parsee ! " cry stubb--"he must have be catch in-- "
" the black vomit wrench thee!--run all of ye above , alow , cabin , forecastle -- find he -- not go -- not go ! "
but quickly they return to he with the tiding that the parsee be nowhere to be find .
" aye , sir , " say stubb--"caught among the tangle of your line -- i think i see he drag under . "
" my line ! my line ? gone?--gone ? what mean that little word?--what death - knell ring in it , that old ahab shake as if he be the belfry . the harpoon , too!--toss over the litter there,--d'ye see it?--the forge iron , man , the white whale's -- no , no , no,--blistered fool ! this hand do dart it!--'tis in the fish!--aloft there ! keep he nail -- quick!--all hand to the rigging of the boat -- collect the oar -- harpooneer ! the iron , the irons!--hoist the royal higher -- a pull on all the sheets!--helm there ! steady , steady for your life ! i will ten time girdle the unmeasured globe ; yea and dive straight through it , but i will slay he yet !
" great god ! but for one single instant show thyself , " cry starbuck ; " never , never wilt thou capture he , old man -- in jesus ' name no more of this , that be bad than devil 's madness . two day chase ; twice stove to splinter ; thy very leg once more snatch from under thee ; thy evil shadow gone -- all good angel mob thee with warnings:-- what more wouldst thou have?--shall we keep chase this murderous fish till he swamp the last man ? shall we be drag by he to the bottom of the sea ? shall we be tow by he to the infernal world ? oh , oh,--impiety and blasphemy to hunt he more ! "
" starbuck , of late i have felt strangely move to thee ; ever since that hour we both see -- thou know'st what , in one another 's eye . but in this matter of the whale , be the front of thy face to i as the palm of this hand -- a lipless , unfeatured blank . ahab be for ever ahab , man . this whole act 's immutably decreed . ' twas rehearse by thee and i a billion year before this ocean roll . fool ! i be the fates ' lieutenant ; i act under order . look thou , underle ! that thou obeyest mine.--stand round i , man . ye see an old man cut down to the stump ; lean on a shivered lance ; prop up on a lonely foot . ' tis ahab -- his body 's part ; but ahab 's soul 's a centipede , that move upon a hundred leg . i feel strained , half strand , as rope that tow dismasted frigate in a gale ; and i may look so . but ere i break , yell hear i crack ; and till ye hear that , know that ahab 's hawser tow his purpose yet . believe ye , man , in the thing call omen ? then laugh aloud , and cry encore ! for ere they drown , drown thing will twice rise to the surface ; then rise again , to sink for evermore . so with moby dick -- two day he be float -- tomorrow will be the third . aye , man , he will rise once more,--but only to spout his last ! d'ye feel brave man , brave ? "
" as fearless fire , " cry stubb .
" and as mechanical , " mutter ahab . then as the man go forward , he mutter on : " the thing call omen ! and yesterday i talk the same to starbuck there , concern my broken boat . oh ! how valiantly i seek to drive out of other ' heart what be clinch so fast in mine!--the parsee -- the parsee!--gone , go ? and he be to go before:--but still be to be see again ere i could perish -- how be that?--there be a riddle now might baffle all the lawyer back by the ghost of the whole line of judges:--like a hawk 's beak it peck my brain . i'll , i'll solve it , though ! "
when dusk descend , the whale be still in sight to leeward .
so once more the sail be shorten , and everything pass nearly as on the previous night ; only , the sound of hammer , and the hum of the grindstone be hear till nearly daylight , as the man toil by lantern in the complete and careful rigging of the spare boat and sharpen their fresh weapon for the morrow . meantime , of the broken keel of ahab 's wrecked craft the carpenter make he another leg ; while still as on the night before , slouch ahab stand fix within his scuttle ; his hid , heliotrope glance anticipatingly go backward on its dial ; sit due eastward for the early sun .
chapter 135
the chase.--third day .
the morning of the third day dawn fair and fresh , and once more the solitary night - man at the fore - mast - head be relieve by crowd of the daylight look - out , who dot every mast and almost every spar .
" d'ye see he ? " cry ahab ; but the whale be not yet in sight .
" in his infallible wake , though ; but follow that wake , that be all . helm there ; steady , as thou goest , and hast been go . what a lovely day again ! be it a new - make world , and make for a summer - house to the angel , and this morning the first of its throwing open to they , a fair day could not dawn upon that world . here 's food for thought , have ahab time to think ; but ahab never think ; he only feel , feel , feel ; that be tingle enough for mortal man ! to think 's audacity . god only have that right and privilege . think be , or ought to be , a coolness and a calmness ; and our poor heart throb , and our poor brain beat too much for that . and yet , i have sometimes think my brain be very calm -- frozen calm , this old skull crack so , like a glass in which the content turn to ice , and shiver it . and still this hair be grow now ; this moment grow , and heat must breed it ; but no , it be like that sort of common grass that will grow anywhere , between the earthy cleft of greenland ice or in vesuvius lava . how the wild wind blow it ; they whip it about i as the tear shred of split sail lash the toss ship they cling to . a vile wind that have no doubt blow ere this through prison corridor and cell , and ward of hospital , and ventilate they , and now comes blow hither as innocent as fleece . out upon it!--it 's taint . be i the wind , i would blow no more on such a wicked , miserable world . i would crawl somewhere to a cave , and slink there . and yet , ' tis a noble and heroic thing , the wind ! who ever conquer it ? in every fight it have the last and bitterest blow . run tilt at it , and you but run through it . ha ! a coward wind that strike stark naked man , but will not stand to receive a single blow . even ahab be a braver thing -- a nobler thing than that . would now the wind but have a body ; but all the thing that most exasperate and outrage mortal man , all these thing be bodiless , but only bodiless as object , not as agent . there be a most special , a most cunning , oh , a most malicious difference ! and yet , i say again , and swear it now , that there be something all glorious and gracious in the wind . these warm trade wind , at least , that in the clear heavens blow straight on , in strong and steadfast , vigorous mildness ; and veer not from their mark , however the base current of the sea may turn and tack , and mighty mississippie of the land swift and swerve about , uncertain where to go at last . and by the eternal poles ! these same trades that so directly blow my good ship on ; these trades , or something like they -- something so unchangeable , and full as strong , blow my keel soul along ! to it ! aloft there ! what d'ye see ? "
" nothing , sir . "
" nothing ! and noon at hand ! the doubloon go a - begging ! see the sun ! aye , aye , it must be so . i have oversaile he . how , get the start ? aye , he be chase i now ; not i , him -- that be bad ; i might have know it , too . fool ! the line -- the harpoon he be tow . aye , aye , i have run he by last night . about ! about ! come down , all of ye , but the regular look out ! man the brace ! "
steer as she have do , the wind have be somewhat on the pequod 's quarter , so that now be point in the reverse direction , the braced ship sail hard upon the breeze as she rechurne the cream in her own white wake .
" against the wind he now steer for the open jaw , " murmur starbuck to himself , as he coil the new - haul main - brace upon the rail . " god keep we , but already my bone feel damp within i , and from the inside wet my flesh . i misdoubt i that i disobey my god in obey he ! "
" stand by to sway i up ! " cry ahab , advance to the hempen basket . " we should meet he soon . "
" aye , aye , sir , " and straightway starbuck do ahab 's bidding , and once more ahab swing on high .
a whole hour now pass ; gold - beat out to age . time itself now hold long breath with keen suspense . but at last , some three point off the weather bow , ahab descry the spout again , and instantly from the three mast - head three shriek go up as if the tongue of fire have voice it .
" forehead to forehead i meet thee , this third time , moby dick ! on deck there!--brace sharper up ; crowd she into the wind 's eye . he be too far off to lower yet , mr. starbuck . the sail shake ! stand over that helmsman with a top - maul ! so , so ; he travel fast , and i must down . but let i have one more good round look aloft here at the sea ; there be time for that . an old , old sight , and yet somehow so young ; aye , and not change a wink since i first see it , a boy , from the sand - hill of nantucket ! the same!--the same!--the same to noah as to i . there be a soft shower to leeward . such lovely leewarding ! they must lead somewhere -- to something else than common land , more palmy than the palm . leeward ! the white whale go that way ; look to windward , then ; the well if the bitterer quarter . but good bye , good bye , old mast - head ! what be this?--green ? aye , tiny moss in these warped crack . no such green weather stain on ahab 's head ! there be the difference now between man 's old age and matter 's . but aye , old mast , we both grow old together ; sound in our hull , though , be we not , my ship ? aye , minus a leg , that be all . by heaven this dead wood have the well of my live flesh every way . i can not compare with it ; and i have know some ship make of dead tree outlast the life of man make of the most vital stuff of vital father . what be that he say ? he should still go before i , my pilot ; and yet to be see again ? but where ? will i have eye at the bottom of the sea , suppose i descend those endless stair ? and all night i have be sail from he , wherever he do sink to . aye , aye , like many more thou told'st direful truth as touch thyself , o parsee ; but , ahab , there thy shot fall short . good - bye , mast - head -- keep a good eye upon the whale , the while i be go . we will talk to - morrow , nay , to - night , when the white whale lie down there , tie by head and tail . "
he give the word ; and still gaze round he , be steadily lower through the cloven blue air to the deck .
in due time the boat be lower ; but as stand in his shallop 's stern , ahab just hover upon the point of the descent , he wave to the mate,--who hold one of the tackle - rope on deck -- and bid he pause .
" starbuck ! "
" sir ? "
" for the third time my soul 's ship start upon this voyage , starbuck . "
" aye , sir , thou wilt have it so . "
" some ship sail from their port , and ever afterwards be miss , starbuck ! "
" truth , sir : sad truth . "
" some man die at ebb tide ; some at low water ; some at the full of the flood;--and i feel now like a billow that be all one crested comb , starbuck . i be old;--shake hand with i , man . "
their hand meet ; their eye fasten ; starbuck 's tear the glue .
" oh , my captain , my captain!--noble heart -- go not -- go not!--see , it be a brave man that weep ; how great the agony of the persuasion then ! "
" lower away!"--crie ahab , toss the mate 's arm from he . " stand by the crew ! "
in an instant the boat be pull round close under the stern .
" the shark ! the shark ! " cry a voice from the low cabin - window there ; " o master , my master , come back ! "
but ahab hear nothing ; for his own voice be high - lift then ; and the boat leap on .
yet the voice spake true ; for scarce have he push from the ship , when number of shark , seemingly rise from out the dark water beneath the hull , maliciously snap at the blade of the oar , every time they dip in the water ; and in this way accompany the boat with their bite . it be a thing not uncommonly happen to the whale - boat in those swarm sea ; the shark at time apparently follow they in the same prescient way that vulture hover over the banner of marching regiment in the east . but these be the first shark that have be observe by the pequod since the white whale have be first descry ; and whether it be that ahab 's crew be all such tiger - yellow barbarian , and therefore their flesh more musky to the sens of the shark -- a matter sometimes well known to affect them,--however it be , they seem to follow that one boat without molest the other .
" heart of wrought steel ! " murmur starbuck gaze over the side , and follow with his eye the recede boat--"canst thou yet ring boldly to that sight?--lowere thy keel among ravening shark , and follow by they , open - mouthed to the chase ; and this the critical third day?--for when three day flow together in one continuous intense pursuit ; be sure the first be the morning , the second the noon , and the third the evening and the end of that thing -- be that end what it may . oh ! my god ! what be this that shoot through i , and leave i so deadly calm , yet expectant,--fixe at the top of a shudder ! future thing swim before i , as in empty outline and skeleton ; all the past be somehow grow dim . mary , girl ! thou fadest in pale glory behind i ; boy ! i seem to see but thy eye grow wondrous blue . strange problem of life seem clearing ; but cloud sweep between -- be my journey 's end come ? my leg feel faint ; like his who have foot it all day . feel thy heart,--beats it yet ? stir thyself , starbuck!--stave it off -- move , move ! speak aloud!--mast - head there ! see ye my boy 's hand on the hill?--crazed;--aloft there!--keep thy keenest eye upon the boats:-- mark well the whale!--ho ! again!--drive off that hawk ! see ! he peck -- he tear the vane"--pointing to the red flag fly at the main - truck--"ha ! he soar away with it!--where be the old man now ? see'st thou that sight , oh ahab!--shudder , shudder ! "
the boat have not go very far , when by a signal from the mast - head -- a downward pointed arm , ahab know that the whale have sound ; but intend to be near he at the next rise , he hold on his way a little sideway from the vessel ; the becharmed crew maintain the profound silence , as the head - beat wave hammer and hammer against the oppose bow .
" drive , drive in your nail , oh ye wave ! to their uttermost head drive they in ! ye but strike a thing without a lid ; and no coffin and no hearse can be mine:--and hemp only can kill i ! ha ! ha ! "
suddenly the water around they slowly swell in broad circle ; then quickly upheave , as if sideway slide from a submerge berg of ice , swiftly rise to the surface . a low rumble sound be hear ; a subterraneous hum ; and then all hold their breath ; as bedraggle with trail rope , and harpoon , and lance , a vast form shot lengthwise , but obliquely from the sea . shroud in a thin droop veil of mist , it hover for a moment in the rainbowed air ; and then fall swamp back into the deep . crush thirty foot upwards , the water flash for an instant like heap of fountain , then brokenly sink in a shower of flake , leave the circle surface cream like new milk round the marble trunk of the whale .
" give way ! " cry ahab to the oarsman , and the boat dart forward to the attack ; but madden by yesterday 's fresh iron that corrode in he , moby dick seem combinedly possess by all the angel that fall from heaven . the wide tier of weld tendon overspread his broad white forehead , beneath the transparent skin , look knit together ; as head on , he come churn his tail among the boat ; and once more flail they apart ; spill out the iron and lance from the two mate ' boat , and dash in one side of the upper part of their bow , but leave ahab 's almost without a scar .
while daggoo and queequeg be stop the strained plank ; and as the whale swim out from they , turn , and show one entire flank as he shoot by they again ; at that moment a quick cry go up . lash round and round to the fish 's back ; pinion in the turn upon turn in which , during the past night , the whale have reel the involution of the line around he , the half tear body of the parsee be see ; his sable raiment fray to shred ; his distended eye turn full upon old ahab .
the harpoon drop from his hand .
" befool , befooled!"--drawe in a long lean breath--"aye , parsee ! i see thee again.--aye , and thou goest before ; and this , this then be the hearse that thou didst promise . but i hold thee to the last letter of thy word . where be the second hearse ? away , mate , to the ship ! those boat be useless now ; repair they if ye can in time , and return to i ; if not , ahab be enough to die -- down , man ! the first thing that but offer to jump from this boat i stand in , that thing i harpoon . ye be not other man , but my arm and my leg ; and so obey me.--where 's the whale ? go down again ? "
but he look too nigh the boat ; for as if bent upon escape with the corpse he bear , and as if the particular place of the last encounter have be but a stage in his leeward voyage , moby dick be now again steadily swim forward ; and have almost pass the ship,--which thus far have be sail in the contrary direction to he , though for the present her headway have be stop . he seem swim with his utmost velocity , and now only intent upon pursue his own straight path in the sea .
" oh ! ahab , " cry starbuck , " not too late be it , even now , the third day , to desist . see ! moby dick seek thee not . it be thou , thou , that madly seek he ! "
set sail to the rise wind , the lonely boat be swiftly impel to leeward , by both oar and canvas . and at last when ahab be slide by the vessel , so near as plainly to distinguish starbuck 's face as he lean over the rail , he hail he to turn the vessel about , and follow he , not too swiftly , at a judicious interval . glance upwards , he see tashtego , queequeg , and daggoo , eagerly mount to the three mast - head ; while the oarsman be rock in the two stave boat which have but just be hoist to the side , and be busily at work in repair they . one after the other , through the port - hole , as he speed , he also catch fly glimpse of stubb and flask , busy themselves on deck among bundle of new iron and lance . as he see all this ; as he hear the hammer in the broken boat ; far other hammer seem drive a nail into his heart . but he rally . and now mark that the vane or flag be go from the main - mast - head , he shout to tashtego , who have just gain that perch , to descend again for another flag , and a hammer and nail , and so nail it to the mast .
whether fag by the three day ' running chase , and the resistance to his swimming in the knot hamper he bear ; or whether it be some latent deceitfulness and malice in he : whichever be true , the white whale 's way now begin to abate , as it seem , from the boat so rapidly near he once more ; though indeed the whale 's last start have not be so long a one as before . and still as ahab glide over the wave the unpitye shark accompany he ; and so pertinaciously stick to the boat ; and so continually bit at the ply oar , that the blade become jagged and crunch , and leave small splinter in the sea , at almost every dip .
" heed they not ! those tooth but give new rowlock to your oar . pull on ! ' tis the well rest , the shark 's jaw than the yield water . "
" but at every bite , sir , the thin blade grow small and small ! "
" they will last long enough ! pull on!--but who can tell"--he muttered--"whether these shark swim to feast on the whale or on ahab?--but pull on ! aye , all alive , now -- we near he . the helm ! take the helm ! let i pass,"--and so say two of the oarsman help he forward to the bow of the still fly boat .
at length as the craft be cast to one side , and run range along with the white whale 's flank , he seem strangely oblivious of its advance -- as the whale sometimes will -- and ahab be fairly within the smoky mountain mist , which , throw off from the whale 's spout , curl round his great , monadnock hump ; he be even thus close to he ; when , with body arch back , and both arm lengthwise high - lift to the poise , he dart his fierce iron , and his far fiercer curse into the hat whale . as both steel and curse sink to the socket , as if suck into a morass , moby dick sideways writhe ; spasmodically roll his nigh flank against the bow , and , without stave a hole in it , so suddenly cant the boat over , that have it not be for the elevated part of the gunwale to which he then clung , ahab would once more have be toss into the sea . as it be , three of the oarsman -- who foreknow not the precise instant of the dart , and be therefore unprepared for its effect -- these be fling out ; but so fall , that , in an instant two of they clutch the gunwale again , and rise to its level on a comb wave , hurl themselves bodily inboard again ; the third man helplessly drop astern , but still afloat and swimming .
almost simultaneously , with a mighty volition of ungraduated , instantaneous swiftness , the white whale dart through the weltering sea . but when ahab cry out to the steersman to take new turn with the line , and hold it so ; and command the crew to turn round on their seat , and tow the boat up to the mark ; the moment the treacherous line feel that double strain and tug , it snap in the empty air !
" what break in i ? some sinew cracks!--'tis whole again ; oar ! oar ! burst in upon he ! "
hear the tremendous rush of the sea - crash boat , the whale wheel round to present his blank forehead at bay ; but in that evolution , catch sight of the near black hull of the ship ; seemingly see in it the source of all his persecution ; bethink it -- it may be -- a large and nobler foe ; of a sudden , he bear down upon its advance prow , smite his jaw amid fiery shower of foam .
ahab stagger ; his hand smite his forehead . " i grow blind ; hand ! stretch out before i that i may yet grope my way . is't night ? "
" the whale ! the ship ! " cry the cringe oarsman .
" oars ! oar ! slope downwards to thy depth , o sea , that ere it be for ever too late , ahab may slide this last , last time upon his mark ! i see : the ship ! the ship ! dash on , my man ! will ye not save my ship ? "
but as the oarsman violently force their boat through the sledge - hammer sea , the before whale - smite bow - end of two plank burst through , and in an instant almost , the temporarily disabled boat lie nearly level with the wave ; its half - wad , splash crew , try hard to stop the gap and bale out the pour water .
meantime , for that one behold instant , tashtego 's mast - head hammer remained suspend in his hand ; and the red flag , half - wrap he as with a plaid , then stream itself straight out from he , as his own forward - flow heart ; while starbuck and stubb , stand upon the bowsprit beneath , catch sight of the down - come monster just as soon as he .
" the whale , the whale ! up helm , up helm ! oh , all ye sweet power of air , now hug i close ! let not starbuck die , if die he must , in a woman 's fainting fit . up helm , i say -- ye fool , the jaw ! the jaw ! be this the end of all my bursting prayer ? all my life - long fidelity ? oh , ahab , ahab , lo , thy work . steady ! helmsman , steady . nay , nay ! up helm again ! he turn to meet we ! oh , his unappeasable brow drive on towards one , whose duty tell he he can not depart . my god , stand by i now ! "
" stand not by i , but stand under i , whoever you be that will now help stubb ; for stubb , too , stick here . i grin at thee , thou grinning whale ! who ever help stubb , or keep stubb awake , but stubb 's own unwinking eye ? and now poor stubb go to bed upon a mattrass that be all too soft ; would it be stuff with brushwood ! i grin at thee , thou grinning whale ! look ye , sun , moon , and star ! i call ye assassin of as good a fellow as ever spout up his ghost . for all that , i would yet ring glass with ye , would ye but hand the cup ! oh , oh ! oh , oh ! thou grinning whale , but there will be plenty of gulp soon ! why fly ye not , o ahab ! for i , off shoe and jacket to it ; let stubb die in his drawer ! a most mouldy and over salt death , though;--cherrie ! cherry ! cherry ! oh , flask , for one red cherry ere we die ! "
" cherries ? i only wish that we be where they grow . oh , stubb , i hope my poor mother 's draw my part - pay ere this ; if not , few copper will now come to she , for the voyage be up . "
from the ship 's bow , nearly all the seaman now hang inactive ; hammer , bit of plank , lance , and harpoon , mechanically retain in their hand , just as they have dart from their various employment ; all their enchant eye intent upon the whale , which from side to side strangely vibrate his predestinate head , send a broad band of overspread semicircular foam before he as he rush . retribution , swift vengeance , eternal malice be in his whole aspect , and spite of all that mortal man could do , the solid white buttress of his forehead smite the ship 's starboard bow , till man and timber reel . some fall flat upon their face . like dislodged truck , the head of the harpooneer aloft shake on their bull - like neck . through the breach , they hear the water pour , as mountain torrent down a flume .
" the ship ! the hearse!--the second hearse ! " cry ahab from the boat ; " its wood could only be american ! "
dive beneath the settling ship , the whale run quiver along its keel ; but turn under water , swiftly shoot to the surface again , far off the other bow , but within a few yard of ahab 's boat , where , for a time , he lie quiescent .
" i turn my body from the sun . what ho , tashtego ! let i hear thy hammer . oh ! ye three unsurrendered spire of mine ; thou uncracked keel ; and only god - bully hull ; thou firm deck , and haughty helm , and pole - point prow,--death - glorious ship ! must ye then perish , and without i ? be i cut off from the last fond pride of mean shipwreck captain ? oh , lonely death on lonely life ! oh , now i feel my topmost greatness lie in my topmost grief . ho , ho ! from all your furth bound , pour ye now in , ye bold billow of my whole foregone life , and top this one pile comber of my death ! towards thee i roll , thou all - destroy but unconquering whale ; to the last i grapple with thee ; from hell 's heart i stab at thee ; for hate 's sake i spit my last breath at thee . sink all coffin and all hearse to one common pool ! and since neither can be mine , let i then tow to piece , while still chase thee , though tie to thee , thou damned whale ! thus , i give up the spear ! "
the harpoon be dart ; the stricken whale fly forward ; with ignite velocity the line run through the grooves;--ran foul . ahab stoop to clear it ; he do clear it ; but the fly turn catch he round the neck , and voicelessly as turkish mute bowstre their victim , he be shoot out of the boat , ere the crew know he be go . next instant , the heavy eye - splice in the rope 's final end fly out of the stark - empty tub , knock down an oarsman , and smite the sea , disappear in its depth .
for an instant , the tranced boat 's crew stand still ; then turn . " the ship ? great god , where be the ship ? " soon they through dim , bewildering medium see her sidelong fade phantom , as in the gaseous fata morgana ; only the uppermost mast out of water ; while fix by infatuation , or fidelity , or fate , to their once lofty perch , the pagan harpooneer still maintain their sink lookout on the sea . and now , concentric circle seize the lone boat itself , and all its crew , and each float oar , and every lance - pole , and spinning , animate and inanimate , all round and round in one vortex , carry the small chip of the pequod out of sight .
but as the last whelming intermixingly pour themselves over the sunken head of the indian at the mainmast , leave a few inch of the erect spar yet visible , together with long stream yard of the flag , which calmly undulate , with ironical coinciding , over the destroy billow they almost touched;--at that instant , a red arm and a hammer hover backwardly uplifted in the open air , in the act of nail the flag fast and yet fast to the subsiding spar . a sky - hawk that tauntingly have follow the main - truck downward from its natural home among the star , peck at the flag , and incommode tashtego there ; this bird now chance to intercept its broad flutter wing between the hammer and the wood ; and simultaneously feel that etherial thrill , the submerge savage beneath , in his death - gasp , keep his hammer freeze there ; and so the bird of heaven , with archangelic shriek , and his imperial beak thrust upwards , and his whole captive form fold in the flag of ahab , go down with his ship , which , like satan , would not sink to hell till she have drag a live part of heaven along with she , and helmete herself with it .
now small fowl fly scream over the yet yawn gulf ; a sullen white surf beat against its steep side ; then all collapse , and the great shroud of the sea roll on as it roll five thousand year ago .
epilogue
" and i only be escaped alone to tell thee " job .
the drama 's do . why then here do any one step forth?--because one do survive the wreck .
it so chance , that after the parsee 's disappearance , i be he whom the fate ordain to take the place of ahab 's bowsman , when that bowsman assume the vacant post ; the same , who , when on the last day the three man be toss from out of the rock boat , be drop astern . so , float on the margin of the ensue scene , and in full sight of it , when the halfspent suction of the sink ship reach i , i be then , but slowly , draw towards the closing vortex . when i reach it , it have subside to a creamy pool . round and round , then , and ever contract towards the button - like black bubble at the axis of that slowly wheel circle , like another ixion i do revolve . till , gain that vital centre , the black bubble upward burst ; and now , liberate by reason of its cunning spring , and , owe to its great buoyancy , rise with great force , the coffin life - buoy shot lengthwise from the sea , fall over , and float by my side . buoy up by that coffin , for almost one whole day and night , i float on a soft and dirgelike main . the unharme shark , they glide by as if with padlock on their mouth ; the savage sea - hawk sail with sheathe beak . on the second day , a sail draw near , nearer , and pick i up at last . it be the devious - cruise rachel , that in her retracing search after her miss child , only find another orphan .
